#separator:tab
#html:true
#tags column:8
Spanish	English	Swedish	Tag	Example ES	Example EN	Comment	Tag
El estado mental	The mental state	Sinnestillstånd ✓	Noun	El estado mental de una persona puede afectar su comportamiento.	The mental state of a person can affect their behavior.	The term estado mental is often used in psychology to describe a persons emotional and cognitive conditions.	Noun
Estar a medio construir	In progress	Halvfärdigt ✓	Phrase	La casa está a medio construir.	The house is halfway built.	The phrase Estar a medio construir is commonly used to describe projects that are unfinished or in progress, emphasizing the state of transition.	Phrase
El canto de pájaros	The song of birds	Fågelsång ✓	Noun	El canto de pájaros es hermoso.	The song of birds is beautiful.	Fun fact: El canto de pájaros captures the essence of nature and is often used in poetry to evoke feelings of peace and tranquility.	Noun
Las carretas sin asfaltar	The unpaved roads	Grusvägarna ✓	Noun	Las carretas sin asfaltar son difíciles de transitar.	The unpaved roads are difficult to travel on.	The term carretas originally referred to carts or wagons used for transporting goods, highlighting the historical significance of roads for trade and travel.	Noun
Las camisas veraniegas	The summer shirts	Sommarskjortor ✓	Noun	Las camisas veraniegas son muy coloridas.	The summer shirts are very colorful.	The term camisa comes from the Latin camisia, which refers to a garment worn close to the skin.	Noun
Sobre todo / ante todo	Above all	Framför allt ✓	Conjunction/subjunction	Sobre todo, es importante ser amable con los demás.	Above all, it is important to be kind to others.	The phrase Sobre todo is often used to emphasize the most important point in a discussion or to prioritize advice.	Conjunction/subjunction
El libro/cine verde	The reality-based book/movie	Verklighetsbaserad bok/film (även picantes!) ✓	Noun	El libro verde es muy interesante.	The green book is very interesting.	The term libro comes from the Latin liber, meaning book or the inner bark of a tree, indicating its historical use in writing.	Noun
Cobrar igual	Equal pay	Tjäna samma (lön) ✓	Phrase	Todos deberían cobrar igual por el mismo trabajo.	Everyone should earn equal pay for the same job.	The phrase cobrar igual highlights the importance of wage equality, a significant topic in discussions about labor rights and social justice.	Phrase
Dentro de poco	Soon	Snart ✓	Adverb	Dentro de poco iremos al cine.	Soon we will go to the cinema.	The phrase Dentro de poco literally translates to within a short time, highlighting its usage in expressing anticipation for near-future events.	Adverb
Mientras	While	Medan ✓	Conjunction/subjunction	Mientras él estudia, yo hago la cena.	While he studies, I make dinner.	The word mientras comes from the Latin dum, meaning while or as long as.	Conjunction/subjunction
Luz de sol pálido	Pale sunlight	Blekt solsken ✓	Noun	La luz de sol pálido ilumina la habitación.	The pale sunlight illuminates the room.	The phrase Luz de sol pálido evokes a sense of softness and tranquility often found in poetry.	Noun
El campo	The field	Fältet (eller landsbygden) ✓	Noun	El campo es tranquilo y hermoso.	The field is calm and beautiful.	El campo comes from Latin campo, which means field or plain and is often associated with rural life in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
La bocina	The horn	Tutan (bil) ✓	Noun	La bocina suena fuerte.	The horn sounds loud.	The word bocina derives from the Latin bucina, which referred to a type of horn used in ancient Rome.	Noun
El desmonte	The clearing	Gläntan ✓	Noun	El desmonte es un lugar donde se han eliminado los árboles.	The clearing is a place where trees have been removed.	The term desmonte comes from the Spanish verb desmontar, meaning to take apart or clear away, often used in agricultural or forestry contexts.	Noun
El bosquecillo	The wooded area	Skogspartiet ✓	Noun	El bosquecillo está lleno de vida.	The wooded area is full of life.	The word bosquecillo derives from the Spanish bosque meaning forest, with the diminutive suffix -cillo suggesting a smaller or lesser version of a forest.	Noun
La cola	The tail	Kön ✓	Noun	La cola es larga.	The tail is long.	The word cola originates from the Latin cauda, meaning tail.	Noun
El hombro	The shoulder	Axeln ✓	Noun	Me duele el hombro.	My shoulder hurts.	The word hombro comes from the Latin humerus, which also refers to the upper arm or shoulder area.	Noun
La indiferencia	Indifference	Likgiltigheten ✓	Noun	La indiferencia puede ser peligrosa.	The indifference can be dangerous.	La indiferencia stems from the Latin indifferentia, meaning not different, highlighting a state of neutrality or lack of concern.	Noun
El alemán	The german	Tysken ✓	Noun	El alemán habla español.	The German speaks Spanish.	El alemán translates directly to the German in English, referring to both the language and the people from Germany.	Noun
La ametralladora	The machine gun	Maskingeväret ✓	Noun	La ametralladora es un arma poderosa.	The machine gun is a powerful weapon.	The word ametralladora comes from the Spanish verb ametrallar, which means to fire in rapid bursts.	Noun
La trinchera	The trench	Skyttegraven ✓	Noun	La trinchera es un lugar de defensa.	The trench is a place of defense.	Trinchera comes from the French “tranchée,” rooted in Latin “truncare” (to cut), and can also be used to describe taking a firm stance.	Noun
La entrada	The ticket	Biljetten ✓	Noun	La entrada es para el concierto.	The ticket is for the concert.	The term entrada comes from the Latin intrata, meaning entrance or entry, reflecting its use in both physical access and admission.	Noun
El fregadero	The sink	Vasken ✓	Noun	Yo lavo los platos en el fregadero.	I wash the dishes in the sink.	The word fregadero comes from the verb fregar, which means to scrub or to wash.	Noun
La belleza	Beauty	Skönhet (beauty) ✓	Noun	La belleza es fundamental en el arte.	The beauty is fundamental in art.	The word belleza comes from the Latin bellus, which means pretty or handsome.	Noun
Las gemas	Gems	Ädelstenarna ✓	Noun	Las gemas son muy valiosas.	The gems are very valuable.	The word gemas comes from the Latin gemma, which means bud or jewel, illustrating its richness and beauty.	Noun
La abeja	The bee	Biet ✓	Noun	La abeja vuela de flor en flor.	The bee flies from flower to flower.	The word abeja comes from the Latin apis, which is also the root for the word apiary, a place where bees are kept.	Noun
El foco	The focus	Fokuset ✓	Noun	El foco está encendido.	The focus is on.	The word foco originates from the Latin focus, meaning hearth or center of activity, and is used in both physical and metaphorical contexts.	Noun
La anáfora	The anaphora	Anafor ✓	Noun	La anáfora se utiliza en la poesía.	The anaphora is used in poetry.	La anáfora comes from the Greek word anaphora, meaning to carry back, which reflects its function of repetition for emphasis.	Noun
El sueño	The dream	Drömmen ✓	Noun	El sueño es hermoso.	The dream is beautiful.	The word sueño comes from the Latin somnium, which means dream.	Noun
El miedo	Fear	Rädsla ✓	Noun	El miedo puede ser paralizante.	The fear can be paralyzing.	The word miedo comes from Latin metus, which means anxiety or fear, and its commonly used in expressions related to phobias and psychological states.	Noun
La plata	Silver	Silvret ✓	Noun	La plata es un metal precioso.	The silver is a precious metal.	The term La plata comes from the Latin plata, meaning silver, and is commonly used in Spanish-speaking countries to refer to money as well.	Noun
El oro	Gold	Guldet ✓	Noun	El oro es muy valioso.	The gold is very valuable.	The word oro comes from the Latin aurum, which is why gold is also associated with the term auriferous, meaning gold-bearing.	Noun
Nunca	Never	Aldrig ✓	Adverb	Nunca voy al cine.	I never go to the cinema.	The word nunca comes from Latin numquam, which also means never and reflects a negation in time.	Adverb
La sierra	The mountain range	I bergen (uppe i bergen) ✓	Noun	La sierra es hermosa.	The mountain range is beautiful.	The word sierra comes from the Spanish word for saw, referring to the jagged shape of mountain ranges resembling a saws teeth.	Noun
La congoja	The anguish	Uppgivenhet/nöd ✓	Noun	La congoja me invade cuando pienso en el futuro.	The anguish overwhelms me when I think about the future.	The word congoja comes from the Latin congaudere, meaning to rejoice together, which is interesting since it reflects a contrast to its current emotional connotation.	Noun
Un enredo	The misunderstanding	Ett missförstånd/förvirring ✓	Noun	Hay un enredo en la conversación.	There is a misunderstanding in the conversation.	The word enredo comes from the verb enredar, which means to tangle, reflecting the idea of getting things mixed up or confused.	Noun
La calumnia	The slander	Förtalet ✓	Noun	La calumnia puede arruinar reputaciones.	The slander can ruin reputations.	Fun fact: The word calumnia comes from the Latin calumnia, which means false accusation or slander.	Noun
El trato	The deal	Avtalet/överenskommelsen ✓	Noun	El trato fue justo para ambas partes.	The deal was fair for both parties.	Fun fact: The word trato comes from the Latin tractatus, which means a handling or a dragging, indicating a form of negotiation or agreement.	Noun
La mantequilla	Butter	Smör ✓	Noun	La mantequilla es deliciosa.	The butter is delicious.	The word mantequilla comes from the Latin manteca, referring to the butterfat, and it highlights the rich culinary tradition of butter in Spanish cuisine.	Noun
El cacahuete	The peanut	Jordnöten ✓	Noun	El cacahuete es un fruto seco delicioso.	The peanut is a delicious nut.	The word cacahuete comes from the Nahuatl word tlālcacahuatl, which reflects its indigenous roots in Mexico where peanuts originated.	Noun
La circunstancia	The circumstance	Omständigheten ✓	Noun	La circunstancia es importante en la toma de decisiones.	The circumstance is important in decision-making.	The word circunstancia comes from the Latin circumstantia, meaning standing around, reflecting the idea of conditions or factors surrounding a situation.	Noun
El banco	The bank	Bänken (eller banken) ✓	Noun	El banco está cerca de mi casa.	The bank is near my house.	The word banco originates from the Italian word banco, meaning bench, which was used in medieval times for money changers who conducted their business on benches.	Noun
La vergüenza	Shame	Skammen ✓	Noun	La vergüenza me impide hablar en público.	The shame prevents me from speaking in public.	The word vergüenza comes from the Latin verentia, which means fear or respect, highlighting its connection to feelings of shame and timidity.	Noun
La charranada	The troublemaker	Idiot/bråkstake/dålig person ✓	Noun	No seas una charranada en la reunión.	Dont be a troublemaker at the meeting.	The term charranada is derived from the Spanish word charrán, which is a type of bird, and it is often used in colloquial contexts to describe foolish or disruptive behavior.	Noun
Caer	To fall	Falla (solen) ✓	Verb	El árbol va a caer.	The tree is going to fall.	The verb caer comes from the Latin cadere, which also means to fall, showing its longstanding usage in the Spanish language.	Verb
Empeñarse en	To insist on	Bestämma sig för ✓	Verb	Me empeño en aprender español.	I insist on learning Spanish.	Empeñarse en comes from the verb empeñar, which originally referred to pawning something, implying a strong commitment to a cause or objective.	Verb
Sacar (los entradas)	To take out (the tickets)	Ta ut (biljetterna) ✓	Verb	Voy a sacar los entradas para el concierto.	I am going to take out the tickets for the concert.	The verb sacar comes from the Latin saccare, which means to take out or to draw out.	Verb
Cabrear	To go to hell	Dra åt helvete ✓	Verb	Me cabrea cuando llegas tarde.	It pisses me off when you arrive late.	The verb cabrear comes from the Latin caprāre, which refers to driving someone like a goat, indicating irritation or annoyance.	Verb
Aguantar	To endure	Uthärda ✓	Verb	No puedo aguantar el ruido.	I cant endure the noise.	The verb aguantar comes from the Latin habere which means to have or to hold, illustrating its sense of holding on or enduring something difficult.	Verb
Dejar	To leave	Lämna ✓	Verb	Dejé mis libros en la mesa.	I left my books on the table.	The verb dejar can also mean to let or to allow, showcasing its versatility in Spanish.	Verb
Encoger (los hombros)	To shrug	Rycka (på axlarna) ✓	Verb	No sé la respuesta, así que solo encogí los hombros.	I dont know the answer, so I just shrugged.	The phrase encoger los hombros is often used to express indifference or a lack of knowledge about a situation.	Verb
Volar	To fly	Flyga ✓	Verb	Los pájaros pueden volar.	Birds can fly.	The verb volar comes from the Latin volare, which also means to fly.	Verb
Acabarse	To finish	Sluta ✓	Verb	El pan se va a acabar.	The bread is going to finish.	Acabarse comes from the verb acabar, meaning to finish or to end, and is often used to indicate that something is no longer available.	Verb
Sacudirse	To shake off	Skaka av sig ✓	Verb	Él se sacudió el agua de encima.	He shook off the water.	The verb sacudirse comes from the Latin saccudere, meaning to shake. It reflects a physical or metaphorical act of getting rid of something unwanted.	Verb
Pasear	To stroll	Promenera ✓	Verb	Me gusta pasear por el parque.	I like to stroll through the park.	The verb pasear comes from the Latin paciāre, which means to make peace, reflecting a tranquil activity.	Verb
Seguir	To follow	Fortsätta ✓	Verb	Yo quiero seguir aprendiendo.	I want to continue learning.	The verb seguir is derived from the Latin sequi, meaning to follow, and it often conveys the idea of continuing an action or state.	Verb
Sorprender	To surprise	Förvåna ✓	Verb	Me sorprende tu felicidad.	Your happiness surprises me.	The verb sorprender is derived from the Latin surripere, meaning to seize or take away, highlighting the suddenness of the surprise effect.	Verb
Cambiar	Change	Förändra ✓	Verb	Necesito cambiar mi ropa.	I need to change my clothes.	The verb cambiar comes from the Latin cambiare, which means to exchange or to trade.	Verb
Sufrir	To suffer	Lida ✓	Verb	Ella va a sufrir mucho si no estudia.	She is going to suffer a lot if she doesnt study.	The verb sufrir comes from the Latin sufferre, which means to bear or to carry under.	Verb
Dormir	To sleep	Sova ✓	Verb	Yo quiero dormir.	I want to sleep.	The word dormir comes from the Latin dormire, which means to sleep. Its interesting to note that in Spanish, the verb often conveys a sense of both rest and inactivity.	Verb
Levantarse	To get up	Gå upp ✓	Verb	Me levanto temprano todos los días.	I get up early every day.	The verb levantar comes from Latin levare, meaning to raise or lift.	Verb
Correr	To run	Springa ✓	Verb	Yo quiero correr por el parque.	I want to run in the park.	The verb correr comes from the Latin word currere, which means to run and is used in various expressions in the Spanish language related to speed and movement.	Verb
Disimular	To conceal	Dölja ✓	Verb	Ella intenta disimular su tristeza.	She tries to conceal her sadness.	The word disimular comes from Latin dissimulare, which means to conceal or hide.	Verb
Ahogar	To drown	Drunkna (även symboliskt) ✓	Verb	No quiero ahogar mis sentimientos.	I dont want to drown my feelings.	The verb ahogar originates from the Latin adaugar, which means to cover or overwhelm, often reflecting both physical and emotional states.	Verb
Conseguir	To get	Få/hämta ✓	Verb	Puedo conseguir un libro.	I can get a book.	The verb conseguir originates from Latin consequere, meaning to follow after or to obtain, reflecting its use in attaining or acquiring something.	Verb
Proponer	To propose	Att föreslå ✓	Verb	Yo propongo que vayamos al cine.	I propose that we go to the cinema.	Fun fact: The verb proponer comes from the Latin proponere, which means to put forth, highlighting the act of suggesting or putting an idea forward.	Verb
Destacar	To highlight	Markera ✓	Verb	Me gusta destacar mis logros.	I like to highlight my achievements.	The verb destacar comes from the Latin distantiare, meaning to stand out or to distinguish.	Verb
Merendar	To snack	Äta på kvällen (kvällsmat) ✓	Verb	Vamos a merendar galletas y leche.	Were going to snack on cookies and milk.	The verb merendar is derived from the Latin merenda, which referred to a light meal taken in the evening.	Verb
Soler	To be accustomed to	Att bruka göra (i presens) ✓	Verb	Yo suelo leer por la mañana.	I usually read in the morning.	The verb soler is often used to express habitual actions and derives from the Latin word solere, meaning to be accustomed.	Verb
Arbolada	Tree-covered	Trädtätt/lummigt ✓	Adjective	El parque tiene una zona arbolada.	The park has a tree-covered area.	The word arbolada comes from árbol, meaning tree, and is often used to describe places that are rich in trees and greenery.	Adjective
Escasos	Scarce	Fåtaliga ✓	Adjective	Los recursos son escasos en esta región.	The resources are scarce in this region.	The word escasos comes from the Latin excasus, meaning to fall short.	Adjective
Común/regular	Common/regular	Vanlig ✓	Adjective	El uso del internet es muy común en la vida diaria.	The use of the internet is very common in daily life.	The word común comes from the Latin communis, meaning shared by all.	Adjective
(ser) verdadero	True	Sann ✓	Adjective	Esto es verdadero.	This is true.	The phrase ser verdadero reflects the concept of truth and is often used in philosophical discussions about existence and reality.	Adjective
Asustado/a	Scared	Rädd (con estar) ✓	Adjective	Estoy asustada por la película.	Im scared of the movie.	The word asustado comes from the verb asustar, which means to scare, and is widely used in Spanish to express fear or fright in various contexts.	Adjective
Pálido	Pale	Blek ✓	Adjective	El cielo está pálido hoy.	The sky is pale today.	Pálido comes from the Latin pallidus, meaning lacking color or brightness.	Adjective
Fijamente	Fixedly	Fixerat ✓	Adverb	Ella miró fijamente la pantalla.	She stared fixedly at the screen.	Fijamente comes from the root fijo, meaning fixed or steady, and emphasizes the intensity of the action.	Adverb
Ser un tostonazo	To be very boring ✓	Att vara väldigt tråkig	Phrase	La clase de matemáticas puede ser un tostonazo.	Math class can be a real bore.	The phrase tostonazo derives from tostón, a term used to describe a hard, dry bread, likening something boring to something hard and unappetizing.	Phrase
Estar chala(d)o perdido	To be out of your mind ✓	Att vara borta i huvudet	Phrase	Estaba tan emocionado que parecía estar chalao perdido	He was so excited that he seemed to be out of his mind	The phrase Estar chalao perdido originates from informal Spanish, with chalao being a slang term derived from the word chala, which is a variation of chalar, meaning to lose ones sanity.	Phrase
Estar en la edad del pavo	To be in the adolescence ✓	Att vara i tonåren	Phrase	Ella está en la edad del pavo y no sabe cómo manejar sus emociones.	She is in the adolescence and doesnt know how to handle her emotions.	The phrase Estar en la edad del pavo literally translates to to be in the turkey age, referring to the awkward and clumsy behavior often seen in teenagers.	Phrase
Cargarse a alguien	To dispose of someone ✓	Förstöra någon	Phrase	No quiero que te cargues a alguien por un malentendido.	I dont want you to dispose of someone over a misunderstanding.	The phrase cargarse a alguien comes from the verb cargar, which means to load or burden, but in slang it takes on a darker meaning of eliminating someone.	Phrase
Cargarse a algo	To destroy something ✓	Förstöra något	Phrase	El niño se cargó a su juguete favorito.	The boy destroyed his favorite toy.	The phrase cargarse a algo originates from the informal use of cargar, which means to load or carry, and has evolved to imply causing significant damage or destruction.	Phrase
De sopetón	Suddenly (colloquial) ✓	Plötsligt	Adverb	De sopetón, llegó un perro a la fiesta.	Suddenly, a dog arrived at the party.	The term De sopetón comes from informal Spanish, often used to describe an unexpected or abrupt occurrence.	Adverb
Tocarse las narices	To be lazy/do nothing ✓	Att vara lat/göra ingenting	Phrase	Hoy solo quiero tocarme las narices	Today I just want to be lazy	The phrase tocarse las narices literally means to touch ones nose, and it reflects a common attitude towards doing nothing, often linked to a light-hearted or humorous approach to laziness in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Phrase
Estar con el agua al cuello	To be up to one’s neck ✓	Att vara upp till nacken	Phrase	Estoy con el agua al cuello porque tengo muchas deudas.	I am up to my neck because I have a lot of debts.	The phrase Estar con el agua al cuello originates from the idea of being overwhelmed or drowning in responsibilities, similar to being submerged in water.	Phrase
Escurrir el bulto	To shirk responsibility ✓	Att undvika ansvar	Phrase	No quiere ayudar en el proyecto y siempre escurre el bulto.	He doesnt want to help with the project and always shirks responsibility.	The phrase Escurrir el bulto literally means to drain the bundle, originally referring to avoiding the weight of responsibility or burden.	Phrase
Estar a la vuelta de la esquina	To be just around the corner (spatially or temporally) ✓	Att vara precis runt hörnet	Phrase	La tienda está a la vuelta de la esquina.	The store is just around the corner.	Fun fact: The phrase Estar a la vuelta de la esquina highlights the concept of proximity, both physically and temporally, and is commonly used in everyday conversation in Spain and Latin America.	Phrase
Hacer una tormenta de un vaso de agua	To make a mountain of a molehill ✓	Skapa en storm i ett vattenglas	Phrase	No deberías hacer una tormenta de un vaso de agua por un pequeño problema.	You shouldnt make a mountain out of a molehill over a small issue.	This phrase literally translates to make a storm out of a glass of water, emphasizing how minor issues can be exaggerated.	Phrase
Saber algo de buena tinta	To know something with good confidence ✓	Att veta något med goda bevis	Phrase	Yo sé algo de buena tinta sobre la reunión.	I know something with good confidence about the meeting.	The phrase Saber algo de buena tinta literally translates to knowing something from reliable sources, often used to imply that the information is well-founded.	Phrase
Estar hecho un fideo	To be thin as a noodle ✓	Tunn som en spagetti	Phrase	Mi hermano está hecho un fideo.	My brother is as thin as a noodle.	The phrase Estar hecho un fideo highlights the cultural perception of being slim, and it reflects humor in describing someones physique in a lighthearted way.	Phrase
Con la mano en el corazón	With hand on heart ✓	Med handen på hjärtat	Phrase	Con la mano en el corazón, te prometo que siempre seré honesto contigo.	With hand on heart, I promise you that I will always be honest with you.	The phrase Con la mano en el corazón is often used to signify sincerity and truthfulness, originating from the notion of placing ones hand over the heart as a gesture of honesty.	Phrase
Ser una lata	To be a nuisance/tedious ✓	Att vara en plåga	Phrase	Hacer tareas aburridas en casa siempre es una lata.	Doing boring chores at home is always going to be a nuisance.	The phrase ser una lata literally translates to to be a can, which reflects the idea of something that is cumbersome or bothersome, much like carrying around an empty can.	Phrase
El candado	The padlock ✓	Den hänglåset	Noun	El candado está en la puerta.	The padlock is on the door.	The word candado comes from the Latin cancellus, which means bar.	Noun
El teclado	The keyboard ✓	Tangentbordet	Noun	El teclado es negro.	The keyboard is black.	The word teclado comes from the Latin tcladus, which means a set of keys or levers, reflecting its function.	Noun
La mochila	The backpack ✓	Ryggsäcken	Noun	La mochila es roja.	The backpack is red.	The word mochila comes from the Arabic makila, which means a bag.	Noun
La carrera	The race ✓	Loppet	Noun	La carrera es emocionante.	The race is exciting.	The word carrera comes from the Latin currere, meaning to run, highlighting its association with speed and competition.	Noun
Los bañadores	The swimsuit ✓	Badbyxorna	Noun	Los bañadores son muy coloridos.	The swimsuits are very colorful.	The word bañador comes from the verb bañar, meaning to bathe, reflecting the garments use for swimming and bathing.	Noun
(yo) que tú	If i were you ✓	Om jag var du	Conjunction/subjunction	(yo) que tú deberías estudiar para el examen.	If I were you, I would study for the exam.	The phrase (yo) que tú is used to give advice and reflects a subjunctive mood in Spanish, indicating a hypothetical situation.	Conjunction/subjunction
(yo) en tu lugar	If i were you (colloquial) ✓	Om jag vore du	Phrase	Si yo en tu lugar, hablaría con ella.	If I were you, I would talk to her.	The phrase (yo) en tu lugar literally means in your place, highlighting an empathetic perspective often used in advice-giving contexts.	Phrase
Mentir	To lie ✓	Att ljuga	Verb	Él suele mentir sobre sus notas.	He often lies about his grades.	The verb mentir has Latin roots, derived from mentiri, which also means to lie and is related to the concept of deception.	Verb
Disculpar	Forgive me ✓	Förlåta	Verb	Disculpar es importante en las relaciones.	To forgive is important in relationships.	The word disculpar comes from Latin disculpare, meaning to clear of blame or to excuse.	Verb
El lavaplatos	The dishwasher ✓	Diskmaskinen	Noun	El lavaplatos está sucio.	The dishwasher is dirty.	The term lavaplatos combines lava (to wash) and platos (dishes), highlighting its function in a kitchen setting.	Noun
La lavadora	The washing machine ✓	Tvättmaskinen	Noun	La lavadora está enchufada.	The washing machine is plugged in.	La lavadora comes from the Spanish verb lavar, meaning to wash, highlighting its primary function in a household.	Noun
Especies en peligro de extinción	Endangered species ✓	Utrotningshotade arter	Noun	Las especies en peligro de extinción necesitan nuestra protección.	The endangered species need our protection.	The term especie comes from Latin species, meaning appearance or kind, highlighting the diversity within living organisms.	Noun
Perder la noción	Lose track of time ✓	Tappa tid	Phrase	A veces, al leer un buen libro, suelo perder la noción del tiempo.	Sometimes, when reading a good book, I tend to lose track of time.	The phrase perder la noción captures the joy of being so absorbed in an activity that one forgets the passage of time.	Phrase
Perder el tiempo	Waste time ✓	Slösa tid	Phrase	No quiero perder el tiempo en cosas triviales.	I dont want to waste time on trivial things.	The phrase Perder el tiempo reflects the idea that time is a valuable resource, and its usage emphasizes the importance of focusing on meaningful activities.	Phrase
La dirección	The address ✓	Adressen	Noun	La dirección está en la esquina.	The address is on the corner.	The word dirección derives from the Latin directio, which means a guiding or direction, highlighting its use in both navigation and communication.	Noun
Recortar	To cut back/trim ✓	Att trimma	Verb	Es necesario recortar las plantas.	It is necessary to trim the plants.	The word recortar comes from the Latin recortare, which means to cut back or shorten.	Verb
La venta	The sale/sales (department) ✓	Försäljningen	Noun	La venta es importante para el negocio.	The sale is important for the business.	The term venta originates from the Latin word vendere, which means to sell.	Noun
Enterarse	To find out ✓	Att få reda på	Verb	Me enteré de la noticia ayer.	I found out about the news yesterday.	The verb enterarse comes from the combination of en (in) and tara (to arrange or put in order), reflecting the act of bringing information to light or order.	Verb
Coger	To take/catch ✓	Att ta	Verb	Voy a coger el autobús.	I am going to take the bus.	The verb coger is commonly used in Spain, but in many Latin American countries, it can have vulgar connotations.	Verb
¿Oiga, perdone?	Excuse me? ✓	Ursäkta mig?	Interjection	¿Oiga, perdone? Estoy buscando la estación de tren.	Excuse me? I am looking for the train station.	The phrase ¿oiga, perdone? combines oiga, a form of the verb oír (to hear), and perdone, a form of perdonar (to forgive), making it a polite way to get someones attention.	Interjection
Llevar	To carry ✓	Att bära	Verb	Yo llevo una mochila	I carry a backpack	The verb llevar is derived from the Latin levare, which means to raise or to lift, illustrating its connection to movement and carrying.	Verb
Salir	To leave/go out ✓	Att lämna	Verb	Voy a salir con mis amigos.	I am going to go out with my friends.	Salir comes from the Latin word salire, which means to leap or to jump, emphasizing the action of leaving a place.	Verb
Cuando esto pase	As soon as this passes ✓	Så snart detta passerar	Conjunction/subjunction	Cuando esto pase, podremos salir a celebrar.	As soon as this passes, we can go out to celebrate.	The phrase cuando esto pase is commonly used in everyday conversation to express hope and anticipation for a future change or improvement.	Conjunction/subjunction
Hasta que	Until ✓	Tills	Conjunction/subjunction	No saldré hasta que anochezca.	I wont leave until it gets dark.	Hasta que literally translates to up to that and is commonly used to indicate a time limit or condition in both everyday conversations and literature.	Conjunction/subjunction
El tenedor	The fork ✓	Gafeln	Noun	El tenedor está en la mesa.	The fork is on the table.	The word tenedor comes from the Latin tenere, meaning to hold, reflecting its function as a tool for holding food.	Noun
En vez de	Instead of ✓	Istället för	Conjunction/subjunction	En vez de comer carne, como verduras.	Instead of eating meat, I eat vegetables.	En vez de literally means in place of and is often used to suggest a better alternative in conversation.	Conjunction/subjunction
Tirar	To throw ✓	Att kasta	Verb	Voy a tirar la pelota.	I am going to throw the ball.	The verb tirar comes from the Latin word tira, meaning to pull or to draw, which reflects its meaning related to throwing something away or pulling it toward you.	Verb
Traer	To bring ✓	Att bringa	Verb	Yo voy a traer la comida.	I am going to bring the food.	The verb traer is derived from Latin trahēre, which means to draw or pull.	Verb
Apagar	To turn off ✓	Att stänga av	Verb	Voy a apagar la luz.	I am going to turn off the light.	The verb apagar comes from the Latin apacare, meaning to extinguish or put out, often referring to fires or lights.	Verb
Propio	(ones) own ✓	Egentlig	Adjective	Este es mi propio coche.	This is my own car.	The word propio comes from Latin proprius, meaning ones own or particular to.	Adjective
Encender	To turn on ✓	Att tända	Verb	Voy a encender la lámpara.	I am going to turn on the lamp.	The verb encender comes from the Latin incendere, which means to set on fire and has applications in both lighting and igniting.	Verb
Mucho mejor	Much better ✓	Mycket bättre	Adverb	Este libro es mucho mejor que el anterior.	This book is much better than the previous one.	The phrase Mucho mejor emphasizes improvement and is commonly used to express a preference for something superior.	Adverb
Pillar	To catch (informal) ✓	Att fånga/fatta	Phrase	Voy a pillar a Juan en la fiesta.	I am going to catch Juan at the party.	The word pillar comes from the Latin pila, meaning pillar or column, but in informal Spanish, it means to catch or nab someone.	Phrase
La regleta	Power strip ✓	Strömskena	Noun	La regleta está enchufada a la pared.	The power strip is plugged into the wall.	The term regleta comes from the word regla, meaning ruler, referring to its linear shape.	Noun
En cambio	On the other hand ✓	Å andra sidan	Conjunction/subjunction	Yo quería ir al cine; en cambio, decidí quedarme en casa.	I wanted to go to the movies; on the other hand, I decided to stay home.	The phrase en cambio literally means in exchange, illustrating a contrast or an alternative situation.	Conjunction/subjunction
Estar equivocado	To be wrong ✓	Att ha fel	Phrase	Estás equivocado sobre la respuesta.	You are wrong about the answer.	The phrase estar equivocado comes from the verb equivocar, which is derived from Latin aequivocare, meaning to call equally or to confuse.	Phrase
De repente	Suddenly ✓	Plötsligt	Adverb	De repente, comenzó a llover.	Suddenly, it started to rain.	De repente is commonly used in both spoken and written Spanish to indicate an unexpected change or occurrence.	Adverb
Todavía ya	Already ✓	Redan	Adverb	Todavía ya terminé mi tarea.	I have already finished my homework.	Todavía ya combines todavía meaning still and ya meaning already, creating a unique phrase often used to express that something has happened sooner than expected.	Adverb
Todavía no	Not yet ✓	Ännu inte	Adverb	No he terminado la tarea todavía no.	I havent finished the homework not yet.	The phrase todavía no is often used in Spanish to indicate that something is pending or has not occurred at the moment, similar to not yet in English.	Adverb
Yo qué sé	"I don&#x27;t know ✓"	Jag vet inte	Phrase	No sé qué hacer, yo qué sé.	I dont know what to do, I dont know.	The phrase yo qué sé is commonly used in Spanish to express uncertainty or lack of knowledge about something, similar to saying I have no idea in English.	Phrase
Estar dispuesto	To be willing ✓	Att vara villig	Phrase	Ella está dispuesta a ayudar.	She is willing to help.	The phrase estar dispuesto highlights a state of readiness or openness, embodying both mental and physical preparedness in various contexts.	Phrase
El sótano	The basement ✓	Källaren	Noun	El sótano está oscuro.	The basement is dark.	The word sótano comes from the Latin subtānum, meaning subterranean or underground.	Noun
El correo	The mail ✓	Posten	Noun	El correo llega todos los días.	The mail arrives every day.	The word correo derives from the Latin currere, meaning to run, reflecting how mail was traditionally delivered quickly.	Noun
Los escalones	The steps ✓	Stegen	Phrase	Los escalones son resbaladizos cuando están mojados.	The steps are slippery when wet.	The word escalón comes from the Latin scala, meaning ladder or stairs, highlighting the connection between climbing and elevation.	Phrase
Cualquiera	Anyone/whoever ✓	Vem som helst	Pronoun	Cualquiera puede participar en la reunión.	Anyone can participate in the meeting.	The word Cualquiera comes from the Latin qualis, meaning of what kind. Its used to refer to any person or thing without distinction.	Pronoun
La esquina	The corner ✓	Det hörnet	Phrase	La esquina está llena de flores.	The corner is full of flowers.	La esquina literally means the corner and often refers to a space where two streets meet, playing a vital role in urban geography.	Phrase
El mandamás	The boss (informal) ✓	Chefen	Noun	El mandamás siempre toma las decisiones importantes.	The boss always makes the important decisions.	Fun fact: Mandamás comes from the Spanish verb mandar, which means to command, reflecting authority and leadership in informal contexts.	Noun
Subir	To go up/increase ✓	Att gå upp/öka	Verb	Voy a subir la montaña.	I am going to go up the mountain.	The verb subir originates from the Latin subire, meaning to go up or from under.	Verb
Al pasar	Upon passing ✓	Vid passerande	Conjunction/subjunction	Al pasar la puerta, vi a mi amigo.	Upon passing the door, I saw my friend.	The phrase Al pasar combines al, meaning upon or upon doing, and pasar, meaning to pass, showcasing how Spanish often combines prepositions with verbs to express actions.	Conjunction/subjunction
El lado	The side ✓	Sidan	Noun	El lado de la casa es azul.	The side of the house is blue.	The word lado comes from Latin latus, meaning side or broad, reflecting its use to describe physical orientation.	Noun
El edificio	The building ✓	Byggnaden	Noun	El edificio es alto.	The building is tall.	The word edificio comes from the Latin aedificium, which means a building; structure.	Noun
Los demás	The others ✓	De andra	Pronoun	Los demás están esperando.	The others are waiting.	Los demás literally means the others, and its commonly used to refer to people not included in a specific group or context.	Pronoun
Atreverse (siempre con pronombre)	To dare ✓	Att våga	Verb	Me atrevo a hablar en público.	I dare to speak in public.	Fun fact: The verb atreverse comes from Latin ad meaning to and tremere which means to tremble, originally implying the courage to face ones fears.	Verb
Sentarse	To sit down ✓	Att sätta sig	Phrase	Voy a sentarme en la silla.	I am going to sit down in the chair.	The word sentarse comes from the Latin senta(re), which means to settle or to place.	Phrase
Fijo	Fixed ✓	Fast	Adjective	El horario del tren es fijo.	The train schedule is fixed.	The term fijo comes from the Latin fixus, which means to fasten or attach, reflecting its use in contexts where stability and permanence are key.	Adjective
Así	Like this/thus ✓	Så	Adverb	Así es como se hace.	This is how it is done.	The word así originates from the Spanish word así meaning like this, and it is commonly used to provide examples or clarify instructions.	Adverb
El empleo	The job ✓	Jobbet	Noun	El empleo es importante para la economía.	The job is important for the economy.	The word empleo comes from the Latin implicare, meaning to involve or to engage.	Noun
Casarse con	To get married ✓	Att gifta sig	Verb	Ellos quieren casarse con sus amigos.	They want to get married to their friends.	The verb casarse is a reflexive verb in Spanish, indicating that the action is performed by the subject upon themselves, which is unique to certain verbs in the language.	Verb
Andar	To walk ✓	Att gå	Verb	Yo quiero andar por el parque.	I want to walk in the park.	The verb andar comes from the Latin ambulare, which means to walk and is commonly used in various Spanish-speaking countries for both walking and moving around.	Verb
Recoger	To pick up/collect ✓	Att plocka upp	Verb	Voy a recoger el libro.	I am going to pick up the book.	The verb recoger comes from the Latin word recolligere, meaning to gather together.	Verb
Tal cual	As it is/just like that ✓	Som det är	Phrase	Lo hice tal cual me dijiste.	I did it just like you told me.	The phrase tal cual reflects a straightforwardness in communication, often used to emphasize accuracy or fidelity to the original instruction.	Phrase
Fíjate	To note/look/imagine ✓	Notera	Interjection	Fíjate en las estrellas esta noche.	Note the stars tonight.	The word Fíjate comes from the verb fijar, which means to fix or to set, and is often used to draw someones attention to something important.	Interjection
La correa	The strap/belt ✓	Den remmen	Noun	La correa es muy útil.	The strap is very useful.	Correa comes from the Latin corrigia, which referred to a strap or thong used in various applications.	Noun
El pedido	The order ✓	Beställningen	Noun	El pedido llegó a tiempo.	The order arrived on time.	The word pedido comes from the verb pedir, which means to ask or to request.	Noun
El reloj	The watch/clock ✓	Klockan	Noun	El reloj está en la mesa.	The watch is on the table.	The word reloj comes from the Latin horologium, which means instrument to tell the time.	Noun
La pantalla	The screen ✓	Skärmen	Noun	La pantalla es grande.	The screen is big.	The word pantalla comes from the Latin pantex, meaning to spread out, reflecting its function of spreading images.	Noun
Enviar	To send/ship ✓	Att skicka	Verb	Voy a enviar la carta.	I am going to send the letter.	The word Enviar comes from the Latin word inviare, which means to send or to dispatch.	Verb
La herramienta	The tool ✓	Verktyget	Noun	La herramienta es muy útil.	The tool is very useful.	The word herramienta comes from the Latin ferramentum, which means instrument or implement.	Noun
Al fin y al cabo	All in all (colloquial) ✓	Allt som allt	Phrase	Al fin y al cabo, decidí quedarme en casa.	All in all, I decided to stay home.	The phrase Al fin y al cabo literally translates to In the end and at the end, highlighting a common theme in Spanish of resolution or conclusion in conversation.	Phrase
Feliz	Happy	Lycklig/glad ✓	Adjective	Estoy muy feliz hoy.	I am very happy today.	The word feliz comes from the Latin felix, meaning fruitful or lucky.	Adjective
Fiel	Faithful	Trogen ✓	Adjective	El perro es muy fiel.	The dog is very faithful.	The word fiel comes from the Latin fidelis, which means trustworthy or loyal.	Adjective
Cortés	Courteous	Artig ✓	Adjective	El señor es muy cortés.	The gentleman is very courteous.	The word Cortés comes from the Latin cortes, meaning courteous or refined, and has been used in various cultures to describe someone who is well-mannered.	Adjective
Culpable	Guilty	Skyldig ✓	Adjective	El acusado es culpable.	The defendant is guilty.	The word culpable comes from the Latin culpabilis, which means blameworthy.	Adjective
Inocente	Innocent	Oskyldig ✓	Adjective	El niño es inocente.	The boy is innocent.	The word inocente comes from the Latin innocens, which means harmless or not guilty.	Adjective
Canadiense	Canadian	Kanadensare ✓	Adjective	El hombre canadiense es amable.	The Canadian man is friendly.	The term canadiense derives from Canada, which comes from the St. Lawrence Iroquoian word kanata, meaning village or settlement.	Adjective
¿Tú qué harías en mi lugar?	What would you do in my place? ✓	Vad skulle du göra i mitt ställe?	Phrase	Si estuvieras en mi lugar, ¿tú qué harías en mi lugar?	If you were in my place, what would you do?	The phrase ¿tú qué harías en mi lugar? reflects a common rhetorical question in Spanish that emphasizes empathy and consideration of others perspectives.	Phrase
Pequeñín	Small	Pytteliten ✓	Adjective	El perro es muy pequeñín.	The dog is very small.	Pequeñín comes from pequeño, which means small, and is often used affectionately to refer to something or someone tiny.	Adjective
Holgazán	Lazy	Lat ✓	Adjective	El joven es muy holgazán.	The young man is very lazy.	Holgazán originates from the Latin hogaz, which implies a sense of idleness or laziness, and it has been used in Spanish to describe someone who avoids work.	Adjective
Mandón	Dominant	Dominant ✓	Adjective	El jefe es muy mandón.	The boss is very dominant.	The word mandón comes from mandar, which means to command in Spanish, highlighting the authoritative nature of the term.	Adjective
Ciego	Blind	Blind ✓	Adjective	El hombre ciego caminaba por la calle.	The blind man was walking down the street.	The word ciego comes from the Latin caecus, which also means blind and is the root of similar words in several languages.	Adjective
El panorama	The panorama	Utsikten ✓	Noun	El panorama es impresionante.	The panorama is breathtaking.	The word panorama comes from Greek, meaning to see all. It was originally used to describe a wide view of the surrounding area.	Noun
Tonto	Fool	Galen ✓	Adjective	Él es un tonto.	He is a fool.	The word tonto comes from the Latin tondus, meaning to cut or shave, which evolved to imply dullness or foolishness.	Adjective
Agrícola	Agricultural	Jordbruks- ✓	Adjective	La producción agrícola es esencial para la economía.	Agricultural production is essential for the economy.	The term agrícola comes from the Latin agricola, meaning farmer, which is derived from ager (field) and cola (dweller).	Adjective
Belga	Belgian	Belgisk ✓	Adjective	El chocolate belga es famoso en todo el mundo.	Belgian chocolate is famous worldwide.	The term Belga originates from the Latin Bellus meaning beautiful, influenced by the rich culture and heritage of Belgium.	Adjective
Croata	Croatian	Kroatisk ✓	Adjective	El idioma croata es hablado por millones de personas.	The Croatian language is spoken by millions of people.	The word Croata comes from the Latin term Croatus, which refers to the Croats, a South Slavic ethnic group.	Adjective
Azteca	Aztec	Aztekisk ✓	Adjective	La cultura azteca fue muy avanzada.	The Aztec culture was very advanced.	The term Aztec derives from Aztlán, which is a mythical place believed to be the origin of the Aztec people.	Adjective
Indígena	Indigenous	Infödd (ursprungsbefolkning) ✓	Adjective	Los pueblos indígenas tienen una rica cultura.	Indigenous peoples have a rich culture.	The term indígena comes from Latin indigenus, meaning born or produced in a place.	Adjective
Pasota	Apathetic	Slapp, likgiltig ✓	Adjective	Él es muy pasota con sus responsabilidades.	He is very apathetic about his responsibilities.	The term pasota comes from the Spanish slang and is often used to describe someone who is indifferent or unconcerned about important matters.	Adjective
Suave	Gentle	Mild / smidigt ✓	Adjective	El tejido es muy suave.	The fabric is very soft.	The word suave comes from the Latin suavis, meaning pleasant or sweet.	Adjective
Alto	Tall	Lång/högt/stort (högt pris = alto precio) ✓	Adjective	El edificio es alto.	The building is tall.	Alto comes from the Latin word altus, meaning high or tall.	Adjective
El alto	The tall	Kullen (eller den långa) ✓	Noun	El alto es muy amable.	The tall one is very kind.	The term alto in Spanish not only refers to height but can also describe someone with a commanding presence or authority.	Noun
Bajo	Short	Kort/låg ✓	Adjective	El edificio es bajo.	The building is short.	The word bajo comes from Latin bassa, which means low or short.	Adjective
La bajo	The decline	Nedgången/förlusten ✓	Noun	La bajo fue inesperada.	The decline was unexpected.	La bajo originates from the Latin word bajo, meaning low, and is often used in economic contexts to describe losses or decreases.	Noun
Al contrario	On the contrary	Tvärtom ✓	Phrase	Ella creía que iba a ganar, pero al contrario, perdió la competencia.	She thought she was going to win, but on the contrary, she lost the competition.	Al contrario is often used to introduce a contrasting idea, and it emphasizes a different perspective or outcome.	Phrase
La concordancia	The congruity	Överensstämmelsen ✓	Noun	La concordancia es importante para la gramática.	The concordance is important for grammar.	La concordancia comes from Latin concordantia, which means agreement or harmony, highlighting its significance in both language and music.	Noun
Pobre	Poor	Fattig (efter) / stackars (före) ✓	Adjective	El pobre hombre perdió su trabajo.	The poor man lost his job.	The word pobre comes from the Latin pauper, which means poor or needy.	Adjective
El acantilado	The cliff	Klippan ✓	Noun	El acantilado es un lugar hermoso para visitar.	The cliff is a beautiful place to visit.	Fun fact: The word acantilado comes from the Latin calcis which means lime, referring to the lime-rich cliffs often found on coastlines.	Noun
Saltar	To jump	Hoppa ✓	Verb	El niño salta en el parque.	The boy jumps in the park.	The verb saltar comes from the Latin saltare, which means to leap or dance, illustrating its energetic connotation in various contexts.	Verb
Diverso	Diverse ✓	Mångfaldig	Adjective	La comunidad es muy diversa.	The community is very diverse.	The word diverso comes from the Latin diversus, which means turned in different directions, emphasizing variety and difference.	Adjective
Actual	Current	Aktuell ✓	Adjective	La información actual es importante.	The current information is important.	The word actual in Spanish actually means current rather than actual in English, which can lead to confusion.	Adjective
Todo lo contrario	On the contrary	Tvärtemot, absolut inte ✓	Phrase	Ella pensó que iba a llover, pero todo lo contrario sucedió y salió el sol.	She thought it was going to rain, but on the contrary the sun came out.	The phrase Todo lo contrario can be used to emphasize disagreement, showcasing its versatility in conversations.	Phrase
Lo contrario	Opposite	Motsatsen ✓	Phrase	Lo contrario de estar triste es estar feliz.	The opposite of being sad is being happy.	The phrase Lo contrario literally translates to the opposite and is often used in various contexts to indicate contrasting ideas or situations.	Phrase
De lo contrario	Otherwise	I annat fall ✓	Conjunction/subjunction	Debes estudiar para el examen, de lo contrario no aprobarás.	You must study for the exam, otherwise you will not pass.	The phrase De lo contrario is commonly used in Spanish to indicate a consequence or alternative, often warning of negative outcomes if certain conditions are not met.	Conjunction/subjunction
Por el contrario	Contrarily	Däremot ✓	Adverb	No me gusta el helado; por el contrario, prefiero el pastel.	I dont like ice cream; on the contrary, I prefer cake.	The phrase por el contrario is often used to introduce a contrasting idea, showing a clear opposition to what was previously stated.	Adverb
Llevar la contraria a alguien	To contradict someone	Säga emot någon ✓	Phrase	Siempre me gusta llevar la contraria a alguien en una conversación.	I always like to contradict someone in a conversation.	The phrase Llevar la contraria a alguien literally means to carry the opposite to someone, indicating an act of disagreement or contradiction.	Phrase
Rosa	Pink	Rosa (oböjligt adjektiv) ✓	Adjective	La flor es rosa.	The flower is pink.	The word rosa comes from the Latin rosa, which means rose, and is used to describe not only the color but also the flower itself.	Adjective
Naranja	Orange	Orange (oböjligt adjektiv) ✓	Adjective	La naranja es mi fruta favorita.	The orange is my favorite fruit.	The word naranja comes from the Arabic nāranj, which also means orange and reflects the fruits introduction to Spain through trade.	Adjective
Crema	Cream	Beige (oböjligt adjektiv) ✓	Adjective	El sofá es de color crema.	The sofa is cream-colored.	Crema comes from the Latin word crema, meaning cream. It describes both a color and the dairy product.	Adjective
Café	Coffee	Café (oböjligt adjektiv) ✓	Adjective	Me gusta el color café.	I like the color brown.	The word café comes from the French word for coffee, reflecting its origins in the coffee trade.	Adjective
Violeta	Purple	Lila (oböjligt adjektiv) ✓	Adjective	La flor es violeta.	The flower is purple.	The word Violeta comes from the Latin Viola, which refers both to the color and the flower.	Adjective
La mosca	The fly	Flugan ✓	Noun	La mosca vuela alrededor de la comida.	The fly is flying around the food.	La mosca is also the title of a famous play by French poet Paul Claudel, emphasizing the cultural significance of the insect beyond its literal meaning.	Noun
Mosca	Fly	Sur, purken (slang) ✓	Adjective	Esa fiesta fue una mosca, nadie se divirtió.	That party was a drag, nobody had fun.	The term mosca can also imply something negative or unappealing in slang, reflecting its use in everyday conversation in Spain.	Adjective
Te veo muerto/a de sueño	You look dead tired	Jag ser att du är dödstrött ✓	Phrase	Te veo muerto de sueño, deberías descansar un poco.	I see you dead tired, you should rest a bit.	The expression muerto de sueño literally translates to dead from sleep, which emphasizes extreme tiredness in a vivid way.	Phrase
El pez	The fish	Fisken ✓	Noun	El pez nada en el agua.	The fish swims in the water.	The word pez comes from the Latin piscis, which reflects the ancient connection between humans and aquatic life.	Noun
Pez	Trash	Kass, bakom flötet (slang) ✓	Adjective	El pez nada en el agua.	The fish swims in the water.	The word pez comes from the Latin piscis, which is also the root for the English word piscine, relating to fish or fish-like.	Adjective
La gallina	The hen	Hönan ✓	Noun	La gallina pone huevos	The hen lays eggs	The word gallina is derived from the Latin gallina, which also means hen and is related to gallus, meaning rooster.	Noun
Gallina	Chicken	Rädd, harig (slang) ✓	Adjective	Eres una gallina por tener miedo.	You are a chicken for being afraid.	The term gallina often refers to someone who is cowardly, and it comes from the word for hen, which is often associated with timidity.	Adjective
La medusa	The jellyfish	Maneten ✓	Noun	La medusa brilla en el agua.	The jellyfish shines in the water.	Interestingly, the word medusa comes from the Greek Medousa, who was one of the three Gorgon sisters in mythology.	Noun
Un hombre muy hombre	A man very much a man	En macho-man ✓	Phrase	Él siempre dice que es un hombre muy hombre	He always says he is a man very much a man	The phrase emphasizes traditional masculinity, highlighting traits often associated with being a real man.	Phrase
Una moto moto	One big motorcycle	En rejäl motorcykel ✓	Phrase	Quiero comprar una moto moto para mis viajes.	I want to buy a big motorcycle for my trips.	The phrase moto moto emphasizes the size or robustness of the motorcycle, showcasing a playful use of repetition in Spanish.	Phrase
Una mujer muy hombre	A very masculine woman	En maskulin kvinna ✓	Phrase	Ella es una mujer muy hombre.	She is a very masculine woman.	The phrase blends masculine traits with femininity, reflecting cultural perceptions of gender roles.	Phrase
La proporción	The proportion	Andelen ✓	Noun	La proporción de estudiantes aprobados fue alta.	The proportion of students who passed was high.	The word proporción comes from the Latin proportio, meaning relation or ratio.	Noun
Cierto	Certain	Viss (framför) / riktig, sanningsenlig (efter) ✓	Adjective	Es cierto que el sol brilla cada día.	It is certain that the sun shines every day.	The word cierto comes from the Latin certus, meaning certain or sure.	Adjective
Medio	Medium	Halv (framför) / genomsnittlig (efter) ✓	Adjective	El libro tiene un tamaño medio.	The book is of medium size.	Medio comes from the Latin medius, meaning middle or center, and is commonly used in Spanish to describe average qualities or measurements.	Adjective
Puro	Pure	Rena, inget annat än (framför) / oblandad (efter) ✓	Adjective	El agua es pura.	The water is pure.	Puro comes from the Latin word pŭrus, which means untainted or clean, emphasizing its association with clarity and absence of impurities.	Adjective
La obra	The work	Jobbet / verket (pjäs) ✓	Noun	La obra fue escrita por un autor famoso.	The work was written by a famous author.	The term obra originates from Latin opera, meaning work, and is commonly used in Spanish to refer to artistic or literary productions.	Noun
El duelo	The grief	Sorgen / sörjandet ✓	Noun	El duelo es un proceso necesario para sanar.	The grief is a necessary process for healing.	The word duelo comes from Latin dolor, which means pain, reflecting the emotional pain associated with loss.	Noun
El plomo	Lead	Blyet ✓	Noun	El plomo es un metal pesado.	The lead is a heavy metal.	The word plomo comes from the Latin plumbum, which is where the word plumbing also originates, referring to pipes made of lead in ancient times.	Noun
Cae el sol como plomo	The sun falls like lead	Solen är så varm att det krossar en. (supervarmt ute) ✓	Phrase	Cae el sol como plomo en el verano	The sun falls like lead in the summer	The phrase Cae el sol como plomo suggests extreme heat, evoking imagery of the suns intensity as heavy and dense, much like lead.	Phrase
Abanicarse	To fan oneself	Fläkta sig själv ✓	Verb	Ella se abanicó bajo el sol.	She fanned herself under the sun.	Abanicarse comes from the noun abanico, meaning fan, which originates from the Latin word vannus, related to the act of winnowing.	Verb
El oficiante	The officiant	Prästen (specifikt i bröllop) ✓	Noun	El oficiante celebra la ceremonia.	The officiant conducts the ceremony.	The word oficiante comes from the Latin officiantem, meaning one who performs a duty or service.	Noun
El llanto	The cry	Gråtandet (tänk llorar) ✓	Noun	El llanto de los bebés es muy conmovedor.	The cry of babies is very moving.	The word llanto comes from the verb llorar, meaning to cry, and its often used in literature to evoke deep emotions.	Noun
El suelo	The ground	Golvet ✓	Noun	El suelo es de color marrón.	The ground is brown.	The word suelo comes from the Latin solum, meaning ground or base.	Noun
El molino	The mill	Kvarnen ✓	Noun	El molino gira lentamente.	The mill turns slowly.	The word molino comes from the Latin molinum, which means mill or grinder, highlighting its historical importance in agriculture.	Noun
Edad de merecer	Age of deserving	I ålder för att gifta sig ✓	Phrase	La edad de merecer es un concepto importante en muchas culturas.	The age of deserving is an important concept in many cultures.	Fun fact: The phrase edad de merecer historically refers to the societal view on the appropriate age for marriage, varying by culture and legal standards.	Phrase
Arreglar	Fix	Arangera / fixa, laga ✓	Verb	Voy a arreglar mi bicicleta.	I am going to fix my bicycle.	The verb arreglar is derived from the Latin regulare, meaning to regulate or to arrange, highlighting its connection to fixing or organizing things.	Verb
Fallecer	To pass away (formal) ✓	Att avlida	Verb	Mi abuelo falleció el año pasado.	My grandfather passed away last year.	The verb fallecer comes from Latin fallere, meaning to deceive; however, its meaning evolved to signify death in Spanish.	Verb
El espejo	The mirror ✓	Spegeln	Noun	El espejo es muy grande.	The mirror is very large.	The word espejo comes from the Latin speculum, which means to look or to see.	Noun
La amistad	The friendship ✓	Vänskapen	Noun	La amistad es importante en la vida.	The friendship is important in life.	The word amistad comes from the Latin amicitas, which means friendship and is related to amicus, meaning friend.	Noun
Audaz	Daring	Djärv, vågad ✓	Adjective	El héroe fue audaz en la batalla.	The hero was daring in the battle.	The word audaz comes from the Latin audax, which means bold or daring, and is used to describe someone who shows courage and confidence.	Adjective
El telón	The curtain	Ridån / gardinen ✓	Noun	El telón se levantó antes de que comenzara la obra.	The curtain rose before the play started.	The word telón comes from the Latin telonium, meaning cloth or fabric, highlighting its role in theatrical performances.	Noun
Teñir (teñirse)	To tint (to dye)	Färga (färga sig) ✓	Verb	Voy a teñir mi cabello de azul.	I am going to dye my hair blue.	The verb teñir comes from the Latin tingere, which means to wet or to dye.	Verb
Regalar	To give	Ge bort (som present) ✓	Verb	Voy a regalar un libro a mi amigo.	I am going to give a book to my friend.	The verb regalar comes from the Latin regalare, which means to present or to offer as a gift.	Verb
Remedar	Imitate	Imitera, härma ✓	Verb	Los niños suelen remedar a sus padres.	Children often imitate their parents.	The verb remedar comes from the Latin remediare, which means to remedy and originally referred to the act of mimicking as a form of correction or improvement.	Verb
La toalla	The towel	Handduken ✓	Noun	La toalla está en la mesa.	The towel is on the table.	The word toalla comes from the Arabic ṭawīl, which means cloth and reflects the historical influence of Arab culture in Spain.	Noun
Cosa de lenguas	Gossip	Rykten, skvaller (med ond avsikt, uttryck)) ✓	Phrase	Siempre hay que tener cuidado con la cosa de lenguas en el trabajo.	You always have to be cautious about gossip at work.	The phrase cosa de lenguas highlights the idea that gossip often spreads with malicious intent, emphasizing the power of words in social dynamics.	Phrase
La boda	The wedding	Bröllopet ✓	Noun	La boda fue hermosa.	The wedding was beautiful.	The word boda comes from the Latin vota, meaning vows, indicating the promises made during the ceremony.	Noun
Delatar	To betray	Förråda, ge bort. ✓	Verb	No debes delatar a tus amigos.	You must not betray your friends.	The verb delatar comes from Latin delatare, meaning to disclose or to reveal.	Verb
La silla	The chair	Stolen ✓	Noun	La silla está rota.	The chair is broken.	The word silla comes from the Latin sedicula, meaning a small seat.	Noun
Cortar	To cut	Klippa / skära  ✓	Verb	Voy a cortar el papel.	I am going to cut the paper.	The verb cortar comes from the Latin cortare, which means to cut and is related to other words in Spanish like corte meaning cut or slice.	Verb
Estar echado	To be lying down	Ligga ned ✓	Phrase	El gato está echado en el sofá.	The cat is lying down on the sofa.	The phrase estar echado comes from the verb echar, which originally meant to throw in Old Spanish, but has evolved to mean to lay or to lie down in certain contexts.	Phrase
Por un oído me entra y por el otro me sale	It goes in one ear and out the other	Jag lyssnar inte på dina dumheter (utryck med öron) ✓	Phrase	No le presté atención a sus quejas; por un oído me entra y por el otro me sale.	I didnt pay attention to his complaints; it goes in one ear and out the other.	Fun fact: This phrase suggests a disregard for what is being said, often implying that the listener is not taking it seriously.	Phrase
Chocar	To crash	Chockera ✓	Verb	El coche va a chocar con la pared.	The car is going to crash into the wall.	The verb chocar comes from the Latin caucāre, meaning to strike or hit, and is commonly used in both physical collisions and metaphorical situations, like ideas clashing.	Verb
Casi se me sale el corazón por la boca	The heart almost jumped out of my mouth	Mitt hjärta slår snabbt (uttryck) (hjärtat lämna nästan ur min mun) ✓	Phrase	Cuando vi el resultado del examen, casi se me sale el corazón por la boca.	When I saw the exam results, my heart almost jumped out of my mouth.	This expression is often used to convey a strong emotional reaction, combining fear or excitement and the physical sensation of a racing heart.	Phrase
Tentar	To tempt	Fresta ✓	Verb	No me tientes, que sabes que me cuesta decir que no.	Don’t tempt me; you know it’s hard for me to say no.	The verb tentar comes from the Latin temptare, which means to feel or to try.	Verb
Pesar	To weigh	Väga ✓	Verb	El pescado pesa dos kilos.	The fish weighs two kilograms.	The verb pesar comes from Latin pensare, which means to weigh or consider, and its often used in both physical and metaphorical contexts.	Verb
El viento	The wind	Vinden ✓	Noun	El viento sopla fuerte hoy.	The wind blows strong today.	El viento derives from the Latin ventus, reflecting the natural force that has inspired many cultures through mythology and literature.	Noun
Descansar	To rest ✓	Att vila	Verb	Necesito descansar.	I need to rest.	The verb descansar comes from Latin refrigerare, meaning to cool down, reflecting the need to rejuvenate after activity.	Verb
El protector solar	The sunscreen ✓	Solskyddet	Noun	El protector solar es esencial para proteger la piel del sol.	The sunscreen is essential for protecting the skin from the sun.	Fun fact: The term sunscreen originated from the combination of sun and screen, signifying its purpose to shield the skin from harmful UV rays.	Noun
La cuenta	The bill (restaurant) ✓	Notan	Noun	La cuenta está lista.	The bill is ready.	The word cuenta comes from the Latin computare, which means to count or to calculate.	Noun
Compartir	Share (eg. food) ✓	Att dela	Verb	Me gusta compartir mi comida.	I like to share my food.	The verb compartir is derived from Latin com-partīre, which means to divide with or to share.	Verb
La manta	The blanket	Filten ✓	Noun	La manta es suave.	The blanket is soft.	The word manta comes from the Latin mantica, which means cloak or cover.	Noun
El enemigo	The enemy ✓	Fienden	Noun	El enemigo ataca por la noche.	The enemy attacks at night.	The word enemigo comes from the Latin inimicus, which means not a friend or hostile.	Noun
Yo dejo que el agua corra	Let the water flow	Låt vattnet rinna	Phrase	Yo dejo que el agua corra	I let the water flow	The phrase Yo dejo que el agua corra is often used metaphorically in Spanish to mean allowing things to take their natural course without interference.	Phrase
El sinsabor	The disappointment ✓	Besvikelsen	Noun	El sinsabor es parte de la vida.	The disappointment is part of life.	The term sinsabor comes from the Spanish word sabor, meaning flavor, and it metaphorically expresses the displeasing aspect of experiences.	Noun
El lástima	The pity/shame ✓	Den skam	Noun	El lástima es que no podemos ir a la fiesta.	The pity is that we cannot go to the party.	El lástima is an expression often used in Spanish to convey disappointment, reflecting the emotional weight of pity or shame.	Noun
El pecho	The chest	Bröstet	Noun	El pecho duele después de hacer ejercicio.	The chest hurts after exercising.	The word pecho comes from the Latin pectus, which means breast or chest and is related to several anatomical terms in both Spanish and English.	Noun
Ya has derramado la sal	You have already spilled the salt ✓	Du har redan spillt saltet	Phrase	Ya has derramado la sal	You have already spilled the salt	The phrase Ya has derramado la sal is often associated with the superstition that spilling salt brings bad luck, leading people to toss a pinch over their left shoulder to ward off evil spirits.	Phrase
La tirita	The band-aid	Plåstret ✓	Noun	La tirita me ayuda cuando me hago una herida.	The band-aid helps me when I get a cut.	The word tirita comes from the verb tirar, meaning to pull, which relates to how band-aids adhere to the skin.	Noun
Por supuesto	Of course ✓	Självklart	Interjection	Por supuesto, puedo ayudarte con eso.	Of course, I can help you with that.	The phrase Por supuesto comes from the Latin pro certo, meaning for certain.	Interjection
El juez	The judge ✓	Domaren	Noun	El juez tomó una decisión justa.	The judge made a fair decision.	The word juez comes from the Latin judex, meaning one who pronounces judgment.	Noun
Las sepias	The cuttlefish ✓	Bläckfiskar	Noun	Las sepias nadan en el océano.	The cuttlefish swim in the ocean.	The word sepia originates from the Greek word sēpia, which means cuttlefish and is also the name of a dark brown pigment derived from the ink of cuttlefish.	Noun
La hoja	The leaf	Bladet	Noun	La hoja está en la mesa.	The leaf is on the table.	The word hoja comes from Latin folia, meaning leaf, and it is commonly used in various contexts in Spanish, not just for plants but also for paper.	Noun
Tejer	To weave	Väva ✓	Verb	Yo quiero tejer un suéter.	I want to weave a sweater.	The verb tejer comes from the Latin texere, which means to weave, and is commonly used in crafts like knitting and crochet.	Verb
Sobre usar	Overuse ✓	Överanvända	Phrase	Debemos tener cuidado sobre usar demasiados recursos.	We must be careful about overusing too many resources.	The phrase sobre usar combines sobre, meaning about, and usar, meaning to use, highlighting a cautionary approach to usage in Spanish-speaking contexts.	Phrase
Alrededor	Around ✓	Runt	Adverb	Los niños están jugando alrededor del parque.	The children are playing around the park.	The word alrededor comes from the Old Spanish al rededor, meaning in a circle or around, and highlights a spatial relationship.	Adverb
Cuidar de	Care for ✓	Att ta hand om	Verb	Yo cuido de mi perro.	I care for my dog.	The phrase cuidar de combines cuidar, meaning to take care, with de, which indicates the object of care, highlighting a sense of responsibility.	Verb
Al menos	At least ✓	Minst	Adverb	Al menos tengo un libro.	At least I have a book.	The phrase Al menos is often used to express a sense of hope or consolation in Spanish, indicating that while the situation may not be ideal, there is still something positive to hold onto.	Adverb
El cartel	A poster ✓	Postern	Noun	El cartel está en la pared.	The poster is on the wall.	The word cartel comes from the Latin cartella, meaning a small card or notice.	Noun
Un montón	A lot ✓	En mängd	Noun	Hay un montón de estrellas en el cielo.	There are a lot of stars in the sky.	Un montón literally means a heap in Spanish, reflecting its informal use to denote a large quantity of something.	Noun
Darse prisa	To hurry	Skynda sig ✓	Verb	¡Tienes que darte prisa!	You have to hurry!	The phrase darse prisa literally translates to to give oneself haste, highlighting the self-initiated nature of urgency in Spanish.	Verb
Por un tiempo	For a while ✓	För en tid	Phrase	Voy a vivir en España por un tiempo.	I am going to live in Spain for a while.	The phrase por un tiempo suggests a temporary situation, and in Spanish, por often indicates duration or a period.	Phrase
A través de	Through ✓	Genom	Preposition	A través de la ventana, veo el jardín.	Through the window, I see the garden.	The phrase A tráves de is often used to indicate a means or method, and its etymology traces back to Latin trans.	Preposition
Insatisfecho	Unsatisfied ✓	Missnöjd	Adjective	Estoy insatisfecho con mi trabajo.	I am unsatisfied with my job.	The word insatisfecho is derived from the Latin insatisfactius, where in- means not and satisfacere means to satisfy.	Adjective
La granja	The farm ✓	Gården	Noun	La granja tiene muchos animales.	The farm has many animals.	The word granja comes from the Latin granica, which refers to plots of land used for growing grain.	Noun
Criar	Raise ✓	Att skapa	Verb	Yo quiero criar plantas en mi jardín.	I want to raise plants in my garden.	The verb Criar comes from Latin creare, which means to create or to produce, and it is commonly used in contexts of nurturing and raising living beings.	Verb
El éxito	The success ✓	Den framgången	Noun	El éxito es el resultado de mucho trabajo.	The success is the result of hard work.	Fun fact: The word éxito comes from the Latin exitus, meaning exit or outcome, highlighting the idea of achieving a desired result.	Noun
Lejano	Distant ✓	Avlägsen	Adjective	La montaña parece lejano.	The mountain looks distant.	The word lejano comes from the Latin lontanus, which means far off or distant, and it’s often used in both literal and metaphorical contexts in Spanish.	Adjective
Coser	To sew	Sy ✓	Verb	Él va a coser la camiseta.	He is going to sew the shirt.	The verb coser is commonly used in textile contexts, referring to the act of sewing.	Verb
Estudios de derecho	Law studies	Juridikstudier ✓	Phrase	Yo estoy interesado en los estudios de derecho.	I am interested in law studies.	The term estudios de derecho is commonly used in Spanish-speaking countries to refer to the academic field focused on the study of law and legal systems.	Phrase
Estudios de letras	Literary studies	Humanistiska studier ✓	Phrase	Los Estudios de letras son una parte importante de las humanidades.	Literary studies are an important part of the humanities.	The term Estudios de letras emphasizes the analysis of written texts and their cultural implications, reflecting the rich relationship between language and literature.	Phrase
Prestar	Lend	Att låna ✓	Verb	Voy a prestar mi libro a mi amigo.	I will lend my book to my friend.	The verb Prestar comes from the Latin word praestare, meaning to stand out or to excel, reflecting the idea of providing something useful to someone.	Verb
Peinar	To comb	Att kamma/borsta ✓	Verb	Yo voy a peinar mi cabello.	I am going to comb my hair.	The verb peinar comes from the Latin word pinna, which refers to a comb or tuft, showing its close relationship with hair grooming.	Verb
Vestir (bien)	To dress (well)	Klä sig (fint) ✓	Verb	Ella siempre viste bien para las ocasiones especiales.	She always dresses well for special occasions.	The verb vestir comes from the Latin vestire, meaning to clothe.	Verb
Vender	To sell	Att sälja ✓	Verb	Yo quiero vender mi coche.	I want to sell my car.	Vender comes from the Latin word vendere, which means to sell; it’s interesting to note how many languages have similar roots for this verb.	Verb
Guardar	To save	Behålla / spara / förvara /  ✓	Verb	Voy a guardar el documento.	I am going to save the document.	The verb guardar originates from the Latin guardare, which means to watch over or to keep.	Verb
Guardar la compostura	Stay composed	Bibehålla lugnet ✓	Phrase	Es importante guardar la compostura en situaciones difíciles.	Its important to keep your composure in difficult situations.	The phrase guardar la compostura literally means to keep the composure and is often used in contexts where maintaining dignity and calmness is crucial.	Phrase
Guardar un minuto de silencio	To hold a moment of silence	Att ha en tyst minut ✓	Phrase	En la ceremonia, decidimos guardar un minuto de silencio por los que hemos perdido.	At the ceremony, we decided to hold a moment of silence for those we have lost.	The phrase is often used to show respect or remembrance for someone who has passed away.	Phrase
Acabar	To finish	Att avsluta ✓	Verb	Voy a acabar mi tarea.	I am going to finish my homework.	The verb Acabar comes from Latin acabare, meaning to reach the end or to finish.	Verb
Doscientos	Twohundred	Väldigt många (men du met inte exakt) ✓	Adjective	Tengo doscientos libros en mi estantería.	I have two hundred books on my shelf.	The word doscientos comes from the Latin ducenti, which means two hundred and is used to indicate a count of 200 in Spanish.	Adjective
Acostarse	To lie down	Gå och lägga sig ✓	Verb	Yo me voy a acostar temprano.	I am going to lie down early.	Acostarse comes from the Spanish word costa meaning side, reflecting the action of lying down on ones side.	Verb
Quedar	To meet	Att träffa ✓	Verb	Vamos a quedar en el café.	We are going to meet at the café.	The verb quedar comes from the Latin quedare, meaning to remain or to stay, but in modern Spanish, it is commonly used for arranging meetings.	Verb
Quedarse	To stay	Att stanna ✓	Verb	Me quiero quedar en casa.	I want to stay at home.	The verb quedarse comes from the Latin remansare, which means to remain or to stay behind.	Verb
Acordar	To agree	Att hålla med ✓	Verb	Nosotros acordamos sobre el plan.	We agree on the plan.	The verb acordar originally comes from Latin accordare, meaning to bring to one heart or mind, highlighting the concept of harmony in agreement.	Verb
Ir	Go	Att gå (någonsans) ✓	Verb	Voy a la tienda.	I am going to the store.	Ir comes from Latin ire, which means to go and is one of the most fundamental verbs in Spanish, often used in various tenses and constructions.	Verb
Irse	To leave	Att gå (säger inte vart) (lämna ett sälle) ✓	Verb	Ella se va de la fiesta.	She leaves the party.	The verb irse comes from the Latin ire, which means to go and it emphasizes a sense of leaving a place rather than simply going to another one.	Verb
Dormirse	To sleep (involuntarily)	Somna involontärt (råkade somna) ✓	Verb	Me dormí en el sofá.	I fell asleep on the couch.	The verb dormirse is a pronominal verb in Spanish, indicating an involuntary action of falling asleep.	Verb
Arrepentirse de (siempre con pronombre)	To regret doing something	Ångra sig ✓	Verb	Me arrepiento de no haber estudiado más.	I regret not having studied more.	The verb arrepentirse comes from the Latin paenitere, which means to cause regret. In Spanish culture, expressing regret is often seen as a way to reflect on past decisions and learn from them.	Verb
Quejarse (siempre con pronombre)	To complain	Klaga ✓	Verb	Siempre me quejo del clima.	I always complain about the weather.	The verb quejarse originates from the Latin queiare, which means to cry out or to lament.	Verb
Despertarse	To wake up	Vakna ✓	Verb	Me despierto a las siete de la mañana.	I wake up at seven in the morning.	The verb despertarse is a reflexive verb, which emphasizes that the subject performs the action on themselves, highlighting the personal nature of waking up.	Verb
Moverse	To move	Flytta på sig ✓	Verb	Él necesita moverse rápidamente.	He needs to move quickly.	The verb moverse comes from the Latin movēre, meaning to move, and is commonly used in everyday Spanish to describe physical movement as well as changes in position or situation.	Verb
Peinarse	To comb oneself	Kamma sig (kamma sitt hår) ✓	Verb	Yo me peino cada mañana.	I comb my hair every morning.	The verb peinarse is reflexive, indicating that the action is performed on oneself, which is common in many Spanish verbs related to personal care.	Verb
Vestirse	Get dressed ✓	Att klä på sig	Verb	Me voy a vestir para la fiesta.	I am going to get dressed for the party.	The verb vestirse comes from the Latin vestire, meaning to dress or clothe.	Verb
Cuidarse	To take care of oneself	Ta hand om sig ✓	Verb	Es importante cuidarse todos los días.	Its important to take care of oneself every day.	The verb cuidarse emphasizes self-care, reflecting a growing awareness of mental and physical health in modern language usage.	Verb
Enfadarse	To get angry	Bli arg ✓	Verb	Me enfado cuando no me escuchan.	I get angry when Im not heard.	The verb enfadarse comes from the Latin infatuare, which means to make foolish or to infuriate.	Verb
Separarse	To separate	Skilja sig / lämna boet, bli självständig (från föräldrar) ✓	Verb	Quiero separarme de mis padres.	I want to separate from my parents.	The verb separarse is reflexive in Spanish, indicating the action is performed by the subject upon themselves, emphasizing independence.	Verb
El puerto	The port	Hamnen ✓	Noun	El puerto está lleno de barcos.	The port is full of boats.	The word puerto comes from the Latin portus, meaning a harbor or port, which indicates its long-standing importance in trade and transportation.	Noun
Soñar con	To dream of	Drömma om ✓	Verb	Yo sueño con viajar por el mundo.	I dream of traveling the world.	The phrase soñar con is often used to express hopes and aspirations, highlighting the importance of dreams in many cultures.	Verb
Depender de	To depend on	Bero på ✓	Verb	La felicidad depende de las decisiones que tomemos.	Happiness depends on the choices we make.	The phrase depender de highlights how our circumstances are often tied to our choices, reflecting the sense of personal responsibility in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Verb
¡Cuenta conmigo!	Count on me	Räkna med mig! ✓	Phrase	Siempre puedes decirme tus problemas, ¡cuenta conmigo!	You can always tell me your problems, count on me!	The phrase ¡cuenta conmigo! emphasizes the importance of reliability and friendship in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Phrase
Comparar con	To compare with	Jämföra med ✓	Verb	Voy a comparar con el libro que leí.	I am going to compare with the book I read.	The phrase comparar con is widely used in academic contexts to analyze similarities and differences between subjects.	Verb
Confiar en / fiarse de	To trust	Lita på ✓	Verb	Yo confío en mis amigos.	I trust my friends.	The verb confiar comes from the Latin confidare, meaning to have full trust or confidence.	Verb
Preocuparse por	To worry about	Oroa sig för ✓	Verb	Me preocupo por mis amigos.	I worry about my friends.	The phrase preocuparse por highlights the importance of caring for others, reflecting a deep sense of empathy in Spanish culture.	Verb
Lo que	What / the thing that ✓	Vad	Pronoun	Lo que quiero es un café.	What I want is a coffee.	Lo que literally translates to what that and is often used to introduce relative clauses in Spanish.	Pronoun
Aunque	Although / even though ✓	Även om	Conjunction/subjunction	Aunque está nublado, iremos al parque.	Although it is cloudy, we will go to the park.	The word aunque comes from Latin, where al means to and quod means what, combining to convey the meaning of although.	Conjunction/subjunction
Con tal de que	As long as / provided that ✓	Så länge	Conjunction/subjunction	Con tal de que estudies, aprobarás el examen.	As long as you study, you will pass the exam.	Con tal de que literally translates to with such of that in English, highlighting its conditional nature in expressing requirements.	Conjunction/subjunction
En tanto que	As long as / while ✓	Så länge som	Conjunction/subjunction	En tanto que estudies, aprobarás el examen.	As long as you study, you will pass the exam.	En tanto que comes from the phrase en tanto que, meaning in as much as, and is often used to express conditions or dual situations.	Conjunction/subjunction
La sillita de bebe	The baby chair ✓	Babystolen	Noun	La sillita de bebé es cómoda.	The baby chair is comfortable.	The term sillita comes from the diminutive form of silla, meaning little chair, reflecting a fondness for smaller furniture designed for children.	Noun
El sacacorchos	The corkscrew ✓	Korkskruven	Noun	El sacacorchos está en la cocina.	The corkscrew is in the kitchen.	The word sacacorchos literally means pulls corks in Spanish, showcasing its functional design.	Noun
El mollete	The muffin ✓	Muffinsen	Noun	El mollete es un desayuno popular en México.	The muffin is a popular breakfast in Mexico.	Fun fact: El mollete refers to a traditional Mexican dish consisting of a bolillo (a type of bread) cut in half, typically topped with refried beans and cheese.	Noun
El alquiler	The rent ✓	Hyran	Noun	El alquiler es bastante alto este mes.	The rent is quite high this month.	The word alquiler comes from the Arabic al-qirā meaning the renting or the fee.	Noun
Venderse	To sell oneself ✓	Att sälja sig	Verb	Ella no quiere venderse por un trabajo.	She does not want to sell herself for a job.	The verb venderse can imply sacrificing one’s principles or values in pursuit of personal gain, showcasing a deeper cultural context beyond mere financial transactions.	Verb
El desarrollador	The developer ✓	Utvecklaren	Noun	El desarrollador crea aplicaciones.	The developer creates applications.	The word desarrollador comes from the verb desarrollar, which means to develop in Spanish.	Noun
El fleje	The strap ✓	Remmen	Noun	El fleje es muy resistente.	The strap is very durable.	The word fleje comes from the Latin flectere, meaning to bend, and is often used in the context of flexible materials.	Noun
Flojito	Loose / lazy / weak ✓	Slapp	Adjective	El gato se ve flojito en el sofá.	The cat looks lazy on the couch.	The term flojito is often used in a playful or affectionate way, as it can refer to someone who is relaxed or taking it easy.	Adjective
Apropiarse	To claim / to take ownership of ✓	Att appropriera sig	Verb	Ella quiere apropiarse de la idea.	She wants to claim the idea.	The word apropriarse comes from the Latin appropriare, which means to make ones own.	Verb
Delante	In front of ✓	Framför	Preposition	El perro está delante de la casa.	The dog is in front of the house.	The word delante comes from the Latin de ante, meaning from before.	Preposition
Detrás	Behind ✓	Bakom	Preposition	El perro está detrás de la puerta.	The dog is behind the door.	The word detrás comes from Latin detras, meaning from behind, connecting it to both spatial relations and concealment.	Preposition
Fallido	Failed ✓	Misslyckad	Adjective	El intento fue fallido.	The attempt was failed.	The word fallido originates from the verb fallar, which means to fail in Spanish.	Adjective
El ascensor	The lift ✓	Hissen	Noun	El ascensor está roto.	The lift is broken.	The word ascensor comes from the Latin ascensorem, meaning to climb up, which reflects its function of moving people upwards.	Noun
El retrato	The portrait ✓	Porträtt	Noun	El retrato está colgado en la pared.	The portrait is hanging on the wall.	The word retratio comes from Latin, where it means drawing back or to draw back, indicating the act of depicting or capturing an image.	Noun
El asiento	The seat ✓	Sätet	Noun	El asiento es muy cómodo.	The seat is very comfortable.	The word asiento comes from the Latin assentus, meaning agreement or to sit down.	Noun
Advertir	To warn ✓	Att varna	Verb	Te advierto que lleves paraguas.	I warn you to take an umbrella.	The verb advertir is derived from the Latin advertere, which means to turn towards or to attend to, reflecting the idea of paying attention to something important.	Verb
La ansiedad	The anxiety ✓	Ångest	Noun	La ansiedad puede ser abrumadora en ciertos momentos.	The anxiety can be overwhelming at times.	La ansiedad comes from the Latin anxietas, meaning uneasiness or difficulty, which highlights the emotional struggle associated with anxiety.	Noun
El apoyo	The support ✓	Stödet	Noun	El apoyo es fundamental para el éxito.	The support is fundamental for success.	The word apoyo comes from the verb apoyar, meaning to support or to lean. It highlights the importance of assistance in achieving goals.	Noun
La cima	The summit ✓	Toppen	Noun	La cima es hermosa.	The summit is beautiful.	The word cima comes from Latin cȳma, meaning top or peak, illustrating the importance of high places in both language and culture.	Noun
Tener ganas de	To look forward to ✓	Att se fram emot	Phrase	Yo tengo ganas de comer pizza.	I look forward to eating pizza.	The phrase Tener ganas de literally translates to to have desires of, emphasizing the feelings of anticipation in Spanish culture.	Phrase
Mostrar	To show ✓	Att visa	Verb	Yo quiero mostrar mi dibujo.	I want to show my drawing.	The verb mostrar comes from the Latin word monstrare, which means to point out or to demonstrate.	Verb
El maquillaje	The makeup ✓	Smink	Noun	Me gusta comprar el maquillaje nuevo.	I like to buy the new makeup.	The word maquillaje comes from the verb maquillar, which means to apply makeup in Spanish.	Noun
El anillo	The ring ✓	Ringen	Noun	El anillo es de oro.	The ring is made of gold.	The word antillo derives from anillo, which means ring, and is a diminutive form that can imply a smaller or delicate version.	Noun
Mandar	Send / command / instruct ✓	Skicka	Verb	Yo voy a mandar un correo.	I am going to send an email.	The verb mandar comes from the Latin mandare, which means to commit or to entrust.	Verb
La caducidad	The expiration (date) ✓	Utgången	Noun	La caducidad del producto es hoy.	The expiration date of the product is today.	La caducidad comes from the Latin root caducus, meaning fallen or inevitable, highlighting the idea of something that cannot last forever.	Noun
A expensas suyas	At their expense	På han/hennes bekostnad ✓	Phrase	El viaje se organizó a expensas suyas.	The trip was organized at their expense.	The phrase a expensas suyas emphasizes the cost incurred by someone else, highlighting a sense of responsibility or burden.	Phrase
No es culpa mía	No it’s not my fault	Det är inte mitt fel ✓	Phrase	No es culpa mía que llegara tarde	It’s not my fault that I arrived late	The phrase No es culpa mía emphasizes personal responsibility and is often used in situations where someone is trying to deflect blame.	Phrase
De parte mía	From my side	Från min sida ✓	Phrase	De parte mía, te envío mis mejores deseos.	On my side, I send you my best wishes.	The phrase De parte mía is often used in formal communication to convey messages or sentiments on behalf of oneself.	Phrase
Por cuenta mía	On my account	För min räkning ✓	Phrase	Voy a comprar este libro por cuenta mía.	I am going to buy this book on my account.	Por cuenta mía literally translates to on my account, but it can also imply taking personal responsibility or acting independently.	Phrase
Muy señor mío:	Dear sir:	Min käre herre (formell inledningsfras i brev) ✓	Phrase	Muy señor mío: Espero que se encuentre bien.	Dear Sir: I hope you are well.	Muy señor mío: has been used in formal correspondence for centuries, reflecting a traditional respect in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Phrase
El hogar	The home	Hemmet ✓	Noun	El hogar es un lugar seguro y acogedor.	The home is a safe and cozy place.	Fun fact: The word hogar comes from the Latin focus, which originally referred to the central point of a fire in a dwelling, symbolizing warmth and family.	Noun
Hogar, dulce hogar	Home, sweet home	Hem, ljuva hem ✓	Phrase	Me siento feliz en mi hogar, dulce hogar.	I feel happy in my home, sweet home.	The phrase Hogar, dulce hogar is often used to express nostalgia and comfort associated with ones home, and it originates from a poem by the English author William Shakespeare.	Phrase
Andamos fatal de dinero	Money is tight right now.	Vi har ont om pengar ✓	Phrase	“Andamos fatal de dinero, así que no podemos salir a cenar.”	“We are tight on money, so we cant go out to dinner.”	The phrase Andamos fatal de dinero is informal and often used in everyday conversation to describe financial difficulties.	Phrase
Costar caro	Be expensive	Att vara/kosta dyrt ✓	Phrase	El coche nuevo me va a costar caro.	The new car is going to be expensive.	The phrase costar caro literally translates to to cost dear and is commonly used to indicate that something is expensive.	Phrase
Costar barato	Be inexpensive	Att vara/kosta billigt ✓	Phrase	Este libro suele costar barato.	This book usually is cheap.	The phrase costar barato originates from the verb costar, which means to cost, and is widely used in everyday Spanish to describe affordable or low-priced items.	Phrase
Hablar alto	Speak loudly	Att tala högt ✓	Phrase	Es importante hablar alto en una reunión.	It is important to speak loudly in a meeting.	The phrase hablar alto emphasizes the action of speaking with volume, highlighting the need for clarity in communication.	Phrase
Hablar bajo	Speak softly	Att tala lågt ✓	Adverb	Es importante hablar bajo en la biblioteca.	It is important to speak softly in the library.	The phrase hablar bajo combines the verb hablar meaning to speak and bajo, which translates to low, highlighting the cultural emphasis on quietness in certain public spaces.	Adverb
Hablar claro	Speak clearly	Att tala tydligt ✓	Phrase	Es importante hablar claro en una presentación.	It is important to speak clearly in a presentation.	The phrase Hablar claro emphasizes the value of transparency in communication, reflecting a common cultural emphasis on clarity in social interactions.	Phrase
Ir (andar) fatal de	Go really badly	Ha stora problem med (uttryck) ✓	Phrase	Siempre ando fatal de energía después de un largo día.	I always end up going really badly on energy after a long day.	The phrase ir (andar) fatal de reflects the use of verbs indicating movement to describe states of being, highlighting the dynamic nature of the Spanish language.	Phrase
Ir lento	Go slow	Gå långsamt ✓	Adverb	Es mejor ir lento para disfrutar del paseo.	It’s better to go slow to enjoy the walk.	The phrase ir lento reflects the importance of taking ones time, which is often encouraged in various cultures to promote mindfulness and appreciation of the moment.	Adverb
Ir rápido	Go fast	Gå snabbt ✓	Adverb	Es importante ir rápido para no perder el autobús.	It is important to go fast to not miss the bus.	The phrase ir rápido highlights the use of the verb ir, which means to go, a fundamental verb in Spanish frequently used in various expressions.	Adverb
Jugar limpio	Play fair	Spela rent ✓	Phrase	Es importante jugar limpio en todos los deportes.	It is important to play fair in all sports.	The phrase jugar limpio emphasizes fairness in competition and is used widely in sports and ethics discussions.	Phrase
Trabajar duro	Work hard	Jobba hårt ✓	Phrase	Es importante trabajar duro para alcanzar tus metas.	It is important to work hard to achieve your goals.	Trabajar duro emphasizes the value of effort in achieving success, reflecting a common cultural belief in hard work across many societies.	Phrase
Frecuentemente	Often	Ofta ✓	Adverb	Ella va al gimnasio frecuentemente.	She goes to the gym frequently.	The word frecuentemente comes from frecuente, which means frequent, and it emphasizes regularity in actions.	Adverb
Esencial	Essential	Väsentlig ✓	Adjective	El agua es esencial para la vida.	Water is essential for life.	The word esencial comes from the Latin essentia, which means being or essence, highlighting its importance in defining what is crucial.	Adjective
Esencialmente	Essentially	Väsentligt ✓	Adverb	Esencialmente, el tiempo es oro.	Essentially, time is money.	The word esencialmente comes from esencial, which is derived from the Latin essentialis, meaning pertaining to essence.	Adverb
Inútilmente	Uselessly	I onödan, förgäves ✓	Adverb	Ella estudió inútilmente para el examen.	She studied uselessly for the exam.	The word inútilmente comes from inútil, which means useless; it is often used to describe actions that do not yield the desired results.	Adverb
Inútil	Useless	Oanvändbar, värdelös ✓	Adjective	Este objeto es inútil.	This object is useless.	Inútil comes from the Latin inutilis, which also means useless and can refer to something that lacks value or function.	Adjective
Afortunadamente (felizmente)	Fortunately	Lyckligtvis ✓	Adverb	Afortunadamente, no llovió durante el picnic.	Fortunately, it didnt rain during the picnic.	The word afortunadamente comes from the Latin fortunatus, which means fortunate or lucky.	Adverb
Decididamente	Decidedly	Sannerligen ✓	Adverb	Estaba decididamente feliz con su elección.	He was decidedly happy with his choice.	The adverb decididamente comes from the verb decidir, meaning to decide, emphasizing clarity and determination in the statement.	Adverb
Desafortunadamente	Unfortunately	Tyvärr ✓	Adverb	Desafortunadamente, no pude asistir a la fiesta.	Unfortunately, I couldnt attend the party.	The word desafortunadamente comes from desafortunado, which means unfortunate, and its often used to express regret or disappointment in Spanish conversations.	Adverb
Efectivamente	Indeed	Mycket riktigt (satsadverb) ✓	Adverb	Efectivamente, el examen fue difícil.	Indeed, the exam was difficult.	The word efectivamente comes from the Latin effectivus, meaning effective, and is commonly used to confirm information or agree with a statement.	Adverb
Evidentemente	Obviously	Uppenbarligen ✓	Adverb	Evidentemente, hoy va a llover.	Obviously, its going to rain today.	The word evidentemente comes from the Latin evidens, meaning clear or manifest, which reflects its function in signaling something apparent or obvious.	Adverb
Finalmente	Finally	När allt kommer omkring ✓	Adverb	Finalmente, llegamos a casa.	Finally, we arrived home.	The word finalmente comes from the Latin finalis, meaning final or last, indicating its use in concluding statements.	Adverb
Fundamentalmente	Fundamentally	I grund och botten ✓	Adverb	Fundamentalmente, la educación es la clave del éxito.	Fundamentally, education is the key to success.	The word fundamental comes from the Latin fundamentalis, meaning of the foundation.	Adverb
Indudablemente	Indubitably	Otvivelaktigt ✓	Adverb	Indudablemente, él vendrá a la fiesta.	Indubitably, he will come to the party.	The word indudablemente is derived from the Latin indubitable, meaning without doubt, and is often used to express certainty in Spanish.	Adverb
Posiblemente	Possibly	Möjligen ✓	Adverb	Posiblemente iré al cine mañana.	I will possibly go to the cinema tomorrow.	Posiblemente derives from the Latin possibilis, meaning able to be done. It reflects uncertainty in its usage.	Adverb
Probablemente	Probably	Troligt ✓	Adverb	Probablemente irá a la fiesta.	He will probably go to the party.	The word probablemente comes from the Latin probabilis, meaning provable or likely, reflecting its role in expressing uncertainty or likelihood.	Adverb
Seguramente	Surely	Säkert ✓	Adverb	Seguramente vendrá a la fiesta.	Surely he will come to the party.	The word seguramente derives from the Latin securus, which means free from care, reflecting confidence in the statement.	Adverb
Sinceramente	Sincerely	Ärligt talat (satsadverb) ✓	Adverb	Sinceramente, no me gusta este libro.	Honestly, I dont like this book.	The word Sinceramente comes from sincero, which roots back to Latin sincerus, meaning clean or pure, reflecting sincerity in expression.	Adverb
Más bien creo que intentó engañarnos.	Rather i think he tried to deceive us.	Jag tror snarare han försökte lura oss. ✓	Phrase	Más bien creo que intentó engañarnos.	Rather I think he tried to deceive us.	The phrase reflects a common Spanish way of expressing doubt or correcting someone, highlighting the speakers belief that an alternative explanation is more likely.	Phrase
Engañar	To deceive	Att lura ✓	Verb	Él intenta engañar a sus amigos.	He tries to deceive his friends.	The word engaño derives from the Latin ingenium, meaning inborn talent or nature, highlighting the cleverness involved in deception.	Verb
Engañarse	To deceive oneself	Att lura sig själv ✓	Verb	No debes engañarte a ti mismo.	You should not deceive yourself.	The verb engañarse comes from the Latin decipere, which means to seize or to ensnare, reflecting the idea of falling into ones own traps of thought.	Verb
Ya que	Given that ✓	Eftersom	Conjunction/subjunction	Ya que tengo hambre, voy a comer.	Given that I am hungry, I am going to eat.	The phrase Ya que is commonly used in Spanish to indicate a reason or justification for an action, similar to since or because in English.	Conjunction/subjunction
De todos modos	In any case ✓	I vilket fall som helst	Conjunction/subjunction	De todos modos, debemos seguir adelante con el proyecto.	In any case, we must move forward with the project.	The phrase De todos modos emphasizes certainty, blending de todos modos (in any case) with a stronger assertion through repetition.	Conjunction/subjunction
No tiene sentido	It makes no sense ✓	Det har ingen mening	Phrase	Decir que el sol no brilla no tiene sentido.	Saying that the sun doesnt shine makes no sense.	The phrase No tiene sentido is commonly used in Spanish to express confusion or disagreement, emphasizing the illogical nature of a statement or situation.	Phrase
Tanto	So much ✓	Så mycket	Adverb	Ella estudia tanto	She studies so much	The word tanto comes from Latin tantus, meaning so great or so much, and it is widely used in both formal and colloquial Spanish to denote quantity or intensity.	Adverb
Aumentar	Increase ✓	Öka	Verb	El precio va a aumentar.	The price is going to increase.	The verb aumentar comes from the Latin augmentare, which means to make bigger or to increase.	Verb
Brecha de genero	The gender gap ✓	Könsgapet	Noun	La brecha de género es un problema social importante.	The gender gap is an important social issue.	The term brecha de género highlights the disparities between men and women, commonly in terms of income, opportunities, and social status.	Noun
El bienestar	The welfare ✓	Välfärden	Noun	El bienestar es fundamental para una buena calidad de vida.	The welfare is essential for a good quality of life.	The term bienestar comes from the Spanish words bien meaning well and estar meaning to be, reflecting the state of being well or comfortable.	Noun
La renta	The income ✓	Inkomst	Noun	La renta es importante para la economía familiar.	The income is important for family economics.	The word renta comes from Latin rendita, which means that which is yielded.	Noun
La fuente	The fountain ✓	Fontänen	Noun	La fuente está en el parque.	The fountain is in the park.	The word fuente comes from Latin fons, meaning spring or source.	Noun
Da problemas	It causes problems ✓	Det orsakar problem	Phrase	Esa máquina da problemas	That machine causes problems	The phrase da problemas comes from the verb dar, meaning to give, indicating that something is giving rise to issues or difficulties.	Phrase
Hay quien	There are those ✓	Det finns de	Pronoun	Hay quien prefiere el café por la mañana.	There are those who prefer coffee in the morning.	Fun fact: Hay quien is often used to introduce opinions or behaviors that may not be universal, implying a sense of variety among people.	Pronoun
El roedor	The rodent ✓	Den gnagaren	Noun	El roedor corre rápido.	The rodent runs quickly.	The word roedor comes from the Latin rodere, which means to gnaw.	Noun
En cuanto a	As to ✓	När det gäller	Preposition	En cuanto a los libros, me gusta leer en la tarde.	As to books, I enjoy reading in the afternoon.	En cuanto a literally translates to in regard to and is commonly used to introduce a specific topic in conversation.	Preposition
El cigarro	The cigar ✓	Cigarren	Noun	El cigarro es caro.	The cigar is expensive.	The word cigar originates from the Spanish word cigarro, which in turn comes from the Mayan word sikAR, meaning to roll.	Noun
La cigarra	The cicada ✓	Cikadan	Noun	La cigarra canta en el verano.	The cicada sings in the summer.	The word cicada comes from the Latin cicada, which means to chirp.	Noun
Verosímil	Plausible ✓	Plausibel	Adverb	La explicación que dio el científico era muy verosímil.	The explanation given by the scientist was very plausible.	The term verosímil comes from the Latin verosimile, which combines verus meaning true and similis meaning like, thus referring to something that appears true or likely.	Adverb
El asunto	The matter ✓	Frågan	Noun	El asunto es complicado.	The matter is complicated.	The word asunto comes from the Latin assuntum, which means approached or brought to attention.	Noun
Cotidiano	Daily ✓	Daglig	Adverb	Me gusta leer el periódico cada día en mi rutina cotidiana.	I like to read the newspaper every day in my daily routine.	The word cotidiano comes from the Latin cotidianus, which means daily or of each day.	Adverb
Por otra parte	On the other hand ✓	Å andra sidan	Conjunction/subjunction	Me gusta la playa. Por otra parte, mi hermano prefiere las montañas.	I like the beach. On the other hand, my brother prefers the mountains.	The phrase Por otra parte literally means on another side and is commonly used to present an alternative perspective in discussions.	Conjunction/subjunction
Tal como	Such as ✓	Sådana som	Conjunction/subjunction	Tal como los árboles crecen, nosotros también podemos crecer.	Such as trees grow, we can also grow.	The phrase tal como originated from Latin, meaning just as, and is often used to introduce examples in Spanish.	Conjunction/subjunction
Borracho	Drunk ✓	Berusad	Adjective	El hombre está borracho.	The man is drunk.	The term borracho comes from the Latin ebriacus, which relates to drunkenness and has similar roots in various Romance languages.	Adjective
La planeta tierra	The planet earth ✓	Planet jorden	Noun	La planeta tierra es hermosa.	The planet earth is beautiful.	The term planet comes from the Greek word planetes, which means wanderer. This reflects how planets move across the sky.	Noun
Hacer la vista gorda	Turn a blind eye ✓	Blunda för	Phrase	El profesor decidió hacer la vista gorda cuando sus alumnos hicieron trampa.	The teacher decided to turn a blind eye when his students cheated.	Hacer la vista gorda originates from the Spanish phrase meaning to make the eye fat, suggesting a deliberate disregard for something one sees.	Phrase
Pinzar	Pinch ✓	Att pincha	Verb	Voy a pinzar la parte superior de la bolsa.	I am going to pinch the top of the bag.	Pinzar is derived from the Latin word pincere, which also means to pinch.	Verb
Una birria	A piece of shit ✓	Ett stycke skit	Phrase	Ese trabajo fue una birria.	That job was a piece of shit.	The term birria originally referred to a type of stew from Mexico, but it has evolved to describe something of poor quality or worthlessness in slang.	Phrase
Echar	To throw ✓	Att kasta	Verb	Echar la pelota	To throw the ball	The verb Echar comes from the Latin iacere, which means to throw or to cast.	Verb
El nudo	The knot ✓	Knuten	Noun	El nudo es difícil de deshacer.	The knot is difficult to untie.	The word nudo comes from the Latin nodus, meaning a node or a knot.	Noun
Cojonudo	Awesome (vulgar)	Fantastiskt	Adjective	Tú eres cojonudo.	You are awesome.	The word is derived from cojones.	Adjective
Merecer	To deserve ✓	Att förtjäna	Verb	Todos merecen ser felices.	Everyone deserves to be happy.	The verb merecer comes from the Latin meritiare, which means to earn or to deserve, highlighting its connection to merit and value.	Verb
Enterrar	To bury ✓	Att begrava	Verb	Voy a enterrar la caja en el jardín.	I am going to bury the box in the garden.	The word Enterrar comes from the Latin interrare, which means to inter. It is often used in both literal and metaphorical contexts in Spanish.	Verb
La corbata	The tie ✓	Slips knot	Noun	La corbata es roja.	The tie is red.	The word corbata in Spanish comes from the Arabic al-burbata, reflecting historical influences on the language.	Noun
El humo	The smoke ✓	Röken	Noun	El humo es denso.	The smoke is dense.	The word humo comes from the Latin fumus, which also means smoke and is related to words in English such as fume and infume.	Noun
Me pillaba de paso	I was passing by ✓	Jag passerade förbi	Phrase	Me pillaba de paso por la cafetería.	I was passing by the café.	The phrase Me pillaba de paso conveys a sense of casualness and spontaneity, often used in everyday conversations to describe an unplanned encounter.	Phrase
La muñeca	The wrist ✓	Handled	Noun	La muñeca duele cuando me muevo.	The wrist hurts when I move.	The word muñeca can also mean doll in Spanish, which comes from the Latin māneca, referring to a small hand or wrist.	Noun
Chulo	Pimp/cool ✓	Snygg	Adjective	Ese coche es muy chulo.	That car is really cool.	The word chulo originally referred to a dandy in 19th-century Spain, but has evolved to mean stylish or cool in modern usage.	Adjective
Esconder	Hide ✓	Att dölja	Verb	Voy a esconder el libro.	I am going to hide the book.	The verb esconder comes from the Latin word abscondere, which means to hide away.	Verb
Haz caso	Pay attention ✓	Var uppmärksam	Phrase	Haz caso a lo que te dicen tus padres.	Pay attention to what your parents say.	The phrase Haz caso comes from the verb hacer (to make or to do) and is commonly used in Spanish-speaking cultures to emphasize the importance of listening and being attentive.	Phrase
Oidar	To hate ✓	Att hata	Verb	Yo odio las espinacas.	I hate spinach.	Interestingly, odiar comes from the Latin odium, which also means hatred.	Verb
Sembrar	Sow ✓	Att så	Verb	Voy a sembrar semillas en el jardín.	I am going to sow seeds in the garden.	The verb sembrar comes from Latin saturare, meaning to make fertile, emphasizing its agricultural roots.	Verb
No hay más cojones	There are no more options ✓	Det finns inga fler alternativ	Phrase	No hay más cojones en esta situación	There are no more options in this situation	The phrase No hay más cojones is often used in Spanish to express a point of inevitability or lack of alternatives, reflecting a colloquial attitude towards tough decisions.	Phrase
La procedencia	The origin ✓	Ursprunget	Noun	La procedencia del vino es MUY importante.	The origin of the wine is very important.	The word procedencia comes from the Latin procedentia, which means coming forth or origin.	Noun
No toques mucho los cojones	"Don&#x27;t get cocky (vulgar) ✓"	Tveka inte så mycket	Phrase	No toques mucho los cojones cuando hables con tu jefe.	Dont get cocky when you talk to your boss.	The phrase No toques mucho los cojones originates from Spanish slang and reflects the informal way that colloquial language can express frustration or admonishment.	Phrase
Regar	To water ✓	Att vattna	Verb	Yo voy a regar las plantas.	I am going to water the plants.	Regar comes from the Latin rigare, which means to wet or moisten.	Verb
¡Sarmentosa por calentura de varón!	She is twisted by the hotness of a man!	Hon är dirty minded (nedlåtande) ✓	Phrase	¡Sarmentosa por calentura de varón!	¡Sarmentosa por calentura de varón!	The phrase derives from a cultural view that associates womens sexual expression with negative traits, reflecting deep-seated gender stereotypes in language.	Phrase
Aconsejable	Advisable	Rekommendat, lämpligt ✓	Adjective	Es aconsejable estudiar todos los días.	It is advisable to study every day.	The word aconsejable comes from the verb aconsejar, meaning to advise, reflecting its usage in recommending actions.	Adjective
Lamentable	Lamentable	Olyckligt, ångersvärt ✓	Adjective	La situación actual es lamentable.	The current situation is lamentable.	Lamentable originates from the Latin word lamentabilis, meaning to be mourned.	Adjective
Penoso	Painful	Pinsamt / smärtsamt ✓	Adjective	Es penoso ver a alguien sufrir.	It is painful to see someone suffer.	The word penoso comes from the Latin poenosa, which means full of pain or sorrow.	Adjective
A la vez	At the same time	Åt gången ✓	Adverb	Ella estudia y trabaja a la vez.	She studies and works at the same time.	The phrase A la vez is often used in Spanish to express simultaneous actions, reflecting the importance of multitasking in many cultures.	Adverb
Para siempre	Forever	För alltid ✓	Adverb	Te amaré para siempre.	I will love you forever.	Para siempre literally translates to for always, with para meaning for and siempre meaning always. It reflects an enduring and timeless concept in many cultures.	Adverb
La maleta	The suitcase ✓	Resväska	Phrase	La maleta está en el armario.	The suitcase is in the closet.	The word maleta comes from the Latin māllettā, which means a small bag or case.	Phrase
¿De qué guindo te has caído?	Which tree did you fall from? ✓	Vilken träd har du fallit ifrån?	Phrase	No entiendo por qué dices eso, ¿de qué guindo te has caído?	I dont understand why you say that, which tree did you fall from?	The phrase ¿de qué guindo te has caído? is often used to express disbelief or to question someones sanity, similar to saying someone is out of touch with reality.	Phrase
El amanecer	The sunrise ✓	Gryningen	Noun	El amanecer es hermoso.	The dawn is beautiful.	The term amanecer comes from the Latin word admanicare, meaning to make light.	Noun
El buzón	The mailbox ✓	Postlådan	Noun	El buzón está lleno de cartas.	The mailbox is full of letters.	The word buzón comes from the Latin bulsus, meaning bag or sack, indicating its original function as a receptacle for collecting mail.	Noun
A gusto	Comfortable ✓	Bekväm	Adjective	En esa casa siempre estamos a gusto.	In that house we always feel at ease.	The word a gusto can also be used with sentirse.	Adjective
Asegurado	Secured/guaranteed ✓	Säker	Adjective	El préstamo está asegurado.	The loan is secured.	The word asegurado comes from the verb asegurar, which means to assure or to ensure in Spanish.	Adjective
La aspiradora	The vacuum cleaner ✓	Dammsugaren	Noun	La aspiradora es muy útil para limpiar la casa.	The vacuum cleaner is very useful for cleaning the house.	In Spanish, aspiradora comes from aspirar, meaning to inhale or to suck in, highlighting its function of sucking up dirt and debris.	Noun
Antender	To tend to / to pay atencion ✓	Att ta hand om / att betala uppmärksamhet	Verb	Es importante antender a los detalles.	It is important to tend to the details.	The verb antender is often confused with atender, which means to attend to or to assist; its usage can vary regionally in Spanish-speaking countries.	Verb
Calentar	To heat	Värma upp, värma ✓	Verb	Yo voy a calentar la comida.	I am going to heat the food.	The verb calentar comes from the Latin calentare, which relates to warmth and has been used in various contexts involving heat since the 15th century.	Verb
Calentarse	To heat up	Bli kåt ✓	Verb	Ellos se calientan antes de jugar al fútbol.	They heat up before playing soccer.	The verb calentarse comes from the Latin calentare, related to warmth and excitement.	Verb
Negar con la cabeza	Shake ones head	Skaka på huvudet (håller inte med) ✓	Phrase	Ella negó con la cabeza cuando le preguntaron si quería ir a la fiesta.	She shook her head when they asked her if she wanted to go to the party.	The phrase negar con la cabeza literally means to deny with the head, which emphasizes body languages role in communication.	Phrase
Negar	To deny	Neka / förneka ✓	Verb	Ella no puede negar la verdad.	She cannot deny the truth.	The verb negar comes from Latin negare, which is related to the Latin word for no, making it fundamentally linked to negation.	Verb
Sostener	To sustain	Hålla / stödja (financiellt) ✓	Verb	Yo sostengo a mi familia financieramente.	I support my family financially.	The verb sostener comes from the Latin sustinere, which means to hold up or to support.	Verb
Ha bebido tanto que no se sostiene	He has drunk so much that he cant stand up.	Han har druckit så mycket att han inte kan stå upp. ✓	Phrase	Después de la fiesta, ha bebido tanto que no se sostiene.	After the party, he has drunk so much that he cant stand up.	The phrase Ha bebido tanto que no se sostiene illustrates the effects of excessive drinking, highlighting a common scenario often depicted in literature and everyday conversations.	Phrase
Temblar	To tremble	Skaka, huttra ✓	Verb	Cuando hace frío, suelo temblar.	When its cold, I usually tremble.	The verb temblar comes from the Latin tremulare, which means to tremble or to shake.	Verb
Temblar de miedo	To tremble with fear	Skaka av rädsla ✓	Phrase	Ella temblaba de miedo al ver la película de terror.	She trembled with fear when watching the horror movie.	The phrase temblar de miedo comes from the verb temblar, which means to tremble, combined with de miedo, meaning with fear, effectively conveying the physical reaction to fear.	Phrase
Aprobar	To approve	Passera, godkänna ✓	Verb	Los estudiantes deben aprobar el examen.	The students must pass the exam.	The verb aprobar originates from the Latin approbāre, which means to prove to be good or acceptable.	Verb
Morder	To bite	Att bita ✓	Verb	El perro quiere morder la pelota.	The dog wants to bite the ball.	The verb morder comes from the Latin mordere, which means to bite.	Verb
Morder el anzuelo	Take the bait ✓	Ta betet	Phrase	No deberías morder el anzuelo en esa discusión.	You shouldnt take the bait in that argument.	The phrase morder el anzuelo is often used in Spanish to describe the act of falling for a trap or provocation, similar to a fish biting a hook.	Phrase
Morder el polvo	Bite the dust ✓	Bita i dammet	Phrase	El caballo tuvo que morder el polvo en la carrera.	The horse had to bite the dust in the race.	The phrase morder el polvo has its origins in the idea that falling or losing in combat results in hitting the ground, which is often associated with defeat.	Phrase
Hervir	To boil	Koka ✓	Verb	El agua va a hervir.	The water is going to boil.	The word hervir comes from the Latin bubulare, meaning to bubble, reflecting the boiling process.	Verb
Invertir	To invest	Invertera, vänta ut och in / investera (pengar) ✓	Verb	Voy a invertir en la bolsa.	I am going to invest in the stock market.	The word invertir comes from the Latin invertere, meaning to turn over or to reverse, reflecting the idea of reallocating resources.	Verb
Perseguir	Persue, follow, chase ✓	Att förfölja	Verb	Yo voy a perseguir el autobús.	I am going to chase the bus.	The verb perseguir comes from the Latin persequi, which means to follow closely or to pursue.	Verb
Reñir	To scold	Att bråka / att skälla ut ✓	Verb	El maestro reñía a los estudiantes por no hacer sus tareas.	The teacher was scolding the students for not doing their homework.	Reñir comes from the Latin renegare, meaning to deny or refuse, illustrating the words association with conflict or reprimanding.	Verb
Narrador omnisciente	Omniscient narrator	Allvetande berättare ✓	Phrase	El narrador omnisciente conoce todos los pensamientos de los personajes.	The omniscient narrator knows all the characters thoughts.	The term narrador omnisciente comes from Latin roots, where omnis means all and scire means to know.	Phrase
Tardar en	To delay	Bli sen, ta tid ✓	Verb	Voy a tardar en llegar a la fiesta.	I am going to be late to the party.	The verb tardar comes from the Latin word tardare, which means to delay or to be slow.	Verb
Sin tardar	Immediately	Utan fördröjning, utan att vänta ✓	Adverb	Necesito que vengas sin tardar.	I need you to come immediately.	The phrase sin tardar is often used in urgent requests, and it literally translates to without delay in English.	Adverb
El fuego	The fire	Elden ✓	Noun	El fuego arde en la chimenea.	The fire burns in the fireplace.	The word fuego comes from the Latin focus, which means hearth or fireplace.	Noun
El burro	The donkey	Åsnan ✓	Noun	El burro come hierba.	The donkey eats grass.	El burro has roots in Latin, deriving from burricus, which means a male donkey and reflects the animals strong reputation for stubbornness.	Noun
La jirafa	The giraffe	Giraffen ✓	Noun	La jirafa come hojas de los árboles.	The giraffe eats leaves from the trees.	La jirafa comes from the Arabic word zarāfa, meaning to walk swiftly, reflecting the animals graceful movements.	Noun
El chimpancé	The chimpanzee	Schimpansen ✓	Noun	El chimpancé es un animal muy inteligente.	The chimpanzee is a very intelligent animal.	The term chimpanzee comes from a word in the Bantu languages of Central Africa, reflecting its origins in the region.	Noun
La serpiente	The snake	Ormen ✓	Noun	La serpiente se desliza por el suelo.	The snake slithers on the ground.	In many cultures, the snake symbolizes transformation and rebirth, often due to its ability to shed its skin.	Noun
La ballena	The whale	Valen (djur) ✓	Noun	La ballena nada en el océano.	The whale swims in the ocean.	Whales are known for their complex songs, which can be heard over long distances underwater.	Noun
El tiburón	The shark	Hajen ✓	Noun	El tiburón nada en el océano.	The shark swims in the ocean.	Fun fact: The word tiburón comes from the Latin tiburcio, which refers to a large fish.	Noun
El alce	The moose	Älgen ✓	Noun	El alce vive en los bosques.	The moose lives in the forests.	The word alce comes from the Latin alces, which is related to the ancient Greek álkos, referring to the animal.	Noun
El reno	The reindeer	Renen ✓	Noun	El reno corre en el bosque.	The reindeer runs in the forest.	The word reno comes from the norrøn word reindýr which means reindeer, highlighting its connection to Nordic culture.	Noun
El oso	The bear	Björnen ✓	Noun	El oso es grande.	The bear is big.	The word oso comes from the Latin ursus, which is also the root for words related to bears in several other languages, including ursine.	Noun
El lobo	The wolf	Vargen ✓	Noun	El lobo aúlla en la noche.	The wolf howls at night.	The word lobo is derived from the Latin lupus, which is still used in scientific terms for wolves today.	Noun
La lubina	The bass	Aborren ✓	Noun	La lubina es un pez muy sabroso.	The bass is a very tasty fish.	The word lubina comes from the Latin lupina, which means wolf, possibly referring to the fishs predatory nature.	Noun
La tortuga	The turtle	Sköldpaddan ✓	Noun	La tortuga nada en el océano.	The turtle swims in the ocean.	The word tortuga comes from the Latin tortuca, which means twisted, possibly referring to the tortoises shape.	Noun
El conejo	The rabbit	Kaninen ✓	Noun	El conejo salta en el jardín.	The rabbit jumps in the garden.	The word conejo comes from the Latin cuniculus, which originally referred to a rabbit or a small animal in burrows.	Noun
El ñu	Gnu	Gnuen ✓	Noun	El ñu corre rápidamente por la llanura.	The gnu runs quickly across the plain.	The word gnu is derived from the Khoisan languages of southern Africa, where it was used to describe this animal.	Noun
El león	The lion	Lejonet ✓	Noun	El león es el rey de la selva.	The lion is the king of the jungle.	The word león comes from the Latin word leo, which is linked to the Indo-European root lewk-, meaning to shine or light.	Noun
La cebra	The zebra	Zebran ✓	Noun	La cebra come hierba.	The zebra eats grass.	The word cebra derives from the Latin cebra, and it refers specifically to the animal known for its distinctive black and white stripes.	Noun
El pato	The duck	Ankan ✓	Noun	El pato nada en el lago.	The duck swims in the lake.	The word pato comes from the Latin pâtum, which means to paddle, reflecting the birds swimming behavior.	Noun
La oveja	The sheep	Fåret ✓	Noun	La oveja es blanca.	The sheep is white.	La oveja refers to a domesticated animal commonly found in many cultures, often symbolizing peace and gentleness.	Noun
El águila	The eagle	Örnen ✓	Noun	El águila vuela alto en el cielo.	The eagle flies high in the sky.	The word águila is feminine in Spanish, but it takes the masculine article el when used in the singular form due to the stress on the first syllable.	Noun
La cabra	The goat	Geten ✓	Noun	La cabra está comiendo hierba.	The goat is eating grass.	The word cabra originates from the Latin capra, which is also related to the word capricornus, meaning horned goat.	Noun
El jabalí	The wild boar	Vildsvinet ✓	Noun	El jabalí corre rápido por el bosque.	The wild boar runs fast through the forest.	The word jabalí comes from the Arabic xabal, reflecting the animals historical significance in Iberian culture.	Noun
El pulpo	The octopus	Bläckfisken ✓	Noun	El pulpo nada en el océano.	The octopus swims in the ocean.	El pulpo comes from the Latin word polypus, meaning many feet, referring to its numerous tentacles.	Noun
El zorro	The fox	Räven ✓	Noun	El zorro es astuto.	The fox is cunning.	The word zorro comes from the Latin vulpes, which refers to a fox, reflecting its clever reputation in both folklore and culture.	Noun
El halcón	The falcon	Falken ✓	Noun	El halcón vuela alto en el cielo.	The falcon flies high in the sky.	The word halcón comes from the Latin falco, which is related to the verb falcare, meaning to cut, reflecting the birds swift flying ability.	Noun
El castor	Beaver	Bävern ✓	Noun	El castor construye represas en los ríos.	The beaver builds dams in the rivers.	El castor comes from the Latin word castor, which refers to the animal known for its industrious nature and ability to modify its environment.	Noun
El erizo	Hedgehog	Igelkotten ✓	Noun	El erizo es un animal nocturno.	The hedgehog is a nocturnal animal.	The word erizo comes from the Latin ericius, which means hedgehog and is related to the word for spines in Latin.	Noun
Medir	To measure ✓	Att mäta	Verb	Yo voy a medir la longitud de la mesa.	I am going to measure the length of the table.	The verb medir comes from the Latin metiri, highlighting its long-standing use in Spanish for quantitative assessments.	Verb
Los dedos (de pies)	The toes	Fingrarna / tårna ✓	Noun	Los dedos de pies son importantes para el equilibrio.	The toes are important for balance.	The word dedos comes from the Latin digitus, meaning finger or toe.	Noun
Los pies	The feet	Fötterna ✓	Noun	Los pies son importantes para caminar.	The feet are important for walking.	Los pies comes from Latin pes, pedis, meaning foot, demonstrating the long history of the word in Romance languages.	Noun
Los dientes	The teeth	Tänderna ✓	Noun	Los dientes son importantes para la alimentación.	The teeth are important for eating.	The word dientes comes from the Latin densus, meaning thick or dense, reflecting their strong structure in the mouth.	Noun
La piel	The skin	Huden ✓	Noun	La piel es muy importante para la salud.	The skin is very important for health.	The word piel comes from the Latin pelle, which also means skin and is used in various Romance languages.	Noun
Los pulmones	The lungs	Lungorna ✓	Noun	Los pulmones son órganos vitales para la respiración.	The lungs are vital organs for breathing.	The word pulmones comes from the Latin pulmones, which means of the air or air-filled.	Noun
La oreja	The ear	Örat ✓	Noun	La oreja duele cuando hace frío.	The ear hurts when its cold.	The word oreja comes from the Latin auricula, which refers specifically to the outer ear.	Noun
El codo	The elbow	Armbågen ✓	Noun	El codo duele después de hacer ejercicio.	The elbow hurts after exercising.	The word codo comes from the Latin cubitus, which means funny bone.	Noun
La rodilla	The knee	Knäet ✓	Noun	Me duele la rodilla.	My knee hurts.	The word rodilla comes from the Latin rodīlla, which is a diminutive form of rodus, meaning to kneel.	Noun
Las cejas	The eyebrows	Ögonbrynen ✓	Noun	Las cejas son muy importantes para la expresión facial.	The eyebrows are very important for facial expression.	The word ceja comes from the Latin supercilia, which means eyebrow and also relates to supercilious, describing a person who raises their eyebrows in disdain.	Noun
La frente	Forehead	Pannan (kroppen) ✓	Noun	La frente está en la parte superior de la cara.	The forehead is at the top of the face.	The word frente comes from the Latin frons, meaning forehead or front, reflecting its position on the head.	Noun
Los nudillos	The knuckles	Knogarna ✓	Noun	Los nudillos son importantes para el movimiento de la mano.	The knuckles are important for hand movement.	The word nudillos comes from the Latin nux, meaning nut, referring to the rounded shape of the joints.	Noun
La cintura	The waist	Midjan ✓	Noun	La cintura es una parte importante del cuerpo.	The waist is an important part of the body.	The word cintura comes from the Latin cinctura, meaning girding or belt, which reflects its association with that part of the body.	Noun
La cadera	The hip	Höften ✓	Noun	La cadera duele después de hacer ejercicio.	The hip hurts after exercising.	The word cadera comes from the Latin capitia, which means hip or hip joint.	Noun
El muslo	The thigh	Låret ✓	Noun	El muslo está cansado después de la carrera.	The thigh is tired after the run.	The word muslo originates from the Latin musculum, meaning small muscle, highlighting its connection to the muscles in the upper leg.	Noun
El músculo	The muscle	Muskeln ✓	Noun	El músculo está creciendo	The muscle is growing	The word músculo comes from Latin musculus, which means little mouse, referring to the way muscles twitch under the skin.	Noun
El nervio	The nerve	Nerven ✓	Noun	El nervio está dañado.	The nerve is damaged.	The word nervio comes from Latin nervus, which means sinew, tendon, evolving to mean nerve in modern languages.	Noun
El esqueleto	The skeleton	Sklettet ✓	Noun	El esqueleto está en el aula.	The skeleton is in the classroom.	The word esqueleto comes from the Greek skeletos, meaning dried up or dried body.	Noun
La vena	The vein	Blodådern ✓	Noun	La vena transporta sangre por todo el cuerpo.	The vein transports blood throughout the body.	The word vena comes from the Latin vena, which means vein and is related to terms in many Romance languages.	Noun
El antebrazo	The forearm	Underarmen ✓	Noun	El antebrazo es una parte importante del cuerpo.	The forearm is an important part of the body.	Fun fact: The word antebrazo comes from the Latin antebracium, which means before the arm.	Noun
El hígado	The liver	Levern ✓	Noun	El hígado es un órgano vital del cuerpo humano.	The liver is a vital organ of the human body.	The word hígado comes from the Latin iecur, reflecting its importance in ancient medicine.	Noun
Los riñones	The kidneys	Njurarna ✓	Noun	Los riñones son esenciales para la filtración de sangre.	The kidneys are essential for filtering blood.	The word riñones comes from the Latin renes, meaning kidneys.	Noun
El estómago	The stomach	Magen/magsäcken ✓	Noun	El estómago duele después de comer demasiado.	The stomach hurts after eating too much.	The word estómago comes from the Latin stomachus, which is derived from the Greek stomachos.	Noun
El cerebro	The brain	Hjärnan ✓	Noun	El cerebro es un órgano muy importante.	The brain is a very important organ.	The word cerebro comes from the Latin cerebrum, which also means brain and is related to the word cerebral.	Noun
La ampolla	The blister	Blåsan (på huden) ✓	Noun	La ampolla es dolorosa.	The blister is painful.	The word ampolla comes from the Latin ampulla, which means little bottle, reflecting the blisters shape.	Noun
Cumplir	To accomplish ✓	Att uppfylla	Verb	Yo quiero cumplir mis metas.	I want to accomplish my goals.	The verb cumplir originates from the Latin complere, which means to fill up or complete, reflecting its essence of achieving or fulfilling tasks.	Verb
Estoy jodido	"I&#x27;m fucked ✓"	Jag är fucked	Phrase	Hoy tengo un examen y no estudié, estoy jodido.	Today I have an exam and I didnt study, Im fucked.	The phrase jodido comes from the verb joder, which means to screw or to mess up in Spanish, making it quite colloquial and emphasized in various contexts.	Phrase
Experimentar	To experiment	Uppleva/experimentera ✓	Verb	Voy a experimentar nuevas recetas.	I am going to experiment with new recipes.	The word experimentar comes from the Latin experimentare, which means to try or test something, emphasizing the idea of testing and learning through experience.	Verb
La foca 	The seal	Sälen (djur, inte stället) ✓	Noun	La foca nada en el océano.	The seal swims in the ocean.	The word foca comes from the Latin focā, which means seal; it reflects the animals playful nature in water.	Noun
Guay	Cool ✓	Cool	Adjective	Ese coche es guay.	That car is cool.	Guay originated in Spain and has evolved to be commonly used in various Spanish-speaking countries to express something positive or nice.	Adjective
Guau	Wow ✓	Wow	Interjection	“Guau, qué hermoso es este paisaje!”	“Wow, how beautiful this landscape is!”	The word Guau mimics the sound a dog makes, similar to Woof in English, and is often used to express amazement.	Interjection
Muero de ganas de	"I&#x27;m dying to (longing for) ✓"	Jag dör av lust att	Phrase	Muero de ganas de comer pizza.	Im dying to eat pizza.	The phrase Muero de ganas de is commonly used in Spanish to express strong desire or longing for something, and it literally translates to I die of desire for.	Phrase
Carajo	Damn (cock) ✓	Helvete (snopp)	Interjection	¡Carajo, se me olvidó el libro en casa!	Damn, I forgot the book at home!	The term carajo is believed to originate from the Spanish term for a ships mast, reflecting frustration or surprise when early sailors would use it.	Interjection
Por fin	Finally ✓	Äntligen	Adverb	Por fin llegamos a la playa.	Finally, we arrived at the beach.	Por fin literally means for finally in Spanish and is used to express relief or joy after a long wait.	Adverb
Cierra el pico	Stfu ✓	Stäng käften	Verb	Cierra el pico y escucha.	Shut your mouth and listen.	Cierra el pico is an informal expression often used in Spain to tell someone to be quiet, originating from the informal usage of pico which refers to a beak, humorously suggesting someone should stop pecking or talking too much.	Verb
Imprescindible	Essential ✓	Väsentlig	Adjective	La educación es imprescindible para el desarrollo personal.	Education is essential for personal development.	The word imprescindible originates from the Latin imprescindibilis, which also means something that cannot be given up or avoided.	Adjective
Sorprendente	Surprising	Förvånande ✓	Adjective	La película fue sorprendente.	The movie was surprising.	The word sorprendente comes from the Latin surprendere, which means to seize or catch by surprise.	Adjective
El lagarto	The lizard	Ödlan ✓	Noun	El lagarto se asolea en la roca.	The lizard basks on the rock.	The word lagarto comes from the Latin lacertus, meaning lizard or reptile, and is used in Spanish to refer to various species of lizards.	Noun
Aún	Still	Ändå/oavsett, ännu ✓	Adverb	Aún tengo que terminar mi tarea.	I still have to finish my homework.	The word aún is often confused with aun; aún means still while aun means even, which can change the meaning of a sentence significantly.	Adverb
Ponerse en las manos de alguien	Put your trust in someone ✓	Sätta sin tillit till någon	Phrase	Es difícil ponerte en las manos de alguien.	It is difficult to put your trust in someone.	The phrase Ponerse en las manos de alguien conveys deep reliance on another person, often suggesting vulnerability and faith in their abilities.	Phrase
Negar en redondo	Deny outright	Helt och hållet förneka ✓	Phrase	Él decidió negar en redondo todas las acusaciones.	He decided to deny outright all the accusations.	The phrase negar en redondo comes from the Spanish word redondo, which means round, suggesting a complete and thorough denial.	Phrase
Disfrazarse de algo	Disguise oneself as ✓	Utkläda sig till	Phrase	A los niños les encanta disfrazarse de algo en Halloween.	Children love to disguise themselves as something on Halloween.	The word disfrazarse comes from disfraz, which has roots in the Spanish word for disguise, and highlights the playful nature of costumes in various cultures.	Phrase
Mal genio	Bad temper	Dåligt temprament ✓	Phrase	Juan tiene mal genio cuando está cansado.	Juan has a bad temper when he is tired.	Mal genio literally translates to bad spirit and highlights how temperament can be seen as a reflection of ones mood or essence.	Phrase
Hasta hace poco	Until recently ✓	Tills nyligen	Adverb	Hasta hace poco, vivía en el campo.	Until recently, I lived in the countryside.	The phrase Hasta hace poco is often used to indicate that a situation has changed quite recently, emphasizing the temporal aspect of the change.	Adverb
El vientre	The belly	Magen (på utsidan) ✓	Noun	El vientre está lleno de comida.	The belly is full of food.	The word vientre comes from the Latin ventre, which also means belly and emphasizes the importance of the abdomen in various cultures.	Noun
La escasez	The shortage ✓	Bristen	Noun	La escasez de agua afecta a muchas comunidades.	The shortage of water affects many communities.	The word escasez comes from the Latin excadentia, meaning lack or deficiency, and is used in various contexts such as resources or time.	Noun
La capucha	The hood (aparell) ✓	Luvan	Noun	La capucha es muy útil en invierno.	The hood is very useful in winter.	Capucha comes from the Latin cappa, meaning a hood or cape, and reflects its function in providing warmth and protection.	Noun
El desconocido	The stranger ✓	Den okända	Noun	El desconocido se sentó en el banco.	The stranger sat on the bench.	The term desconocido comes from the Latin dēscōnōscere, meaning to be unrecognized or unknown, reflecting the idea of anonymity.	Noun
Cuyo	Whose ✓	Vems	Pronoun	El hombre cuyo coche es rojo es mi amigo.	The man whose car is red is my friend.	Cuyo is used to indicate possession and agrees in gender and number with the noun it modifies.	Pronoun
El hielo	The ice ✓	Isolerat	Noun	El hielo es frío.	The ice is cold.	The word hielo comes from Latin glacies, which means ice and denotes frozen water.	Noun
Orgulloso	Proud ✓	Stolt	Adjective	Estoy muy orgulloso de mis logros.	I am very proud of my achievements.	The word proud comes from the Old English prūt, which initially meant brave or valiant before evolving to its current meaning centered on self-satisfaction.	Adjective
Decepcionado	Disappointed ✓	Besviken	Adjective	Estoy decepcionado con el resultado.	I am disappointed with the result.	The word decepcionado comes from decepción, which is related to the Latin deceptio, meaning deceit or misleading.	Adjective
A pesar de todo	Despite everything ✓	Trots allt	Preposition	A pesar de todo, decidí seguir adelante.	Despite everything, I decided to move forward.	The phrase A pesar de todo is commonly used in Spanish to convey resilience in the face of adversity.	Preposition
La amenaza	The threat ✓	Hotet	Noun	La amenaza es real.	The threat is real.	The word amenaza comes from the Latin minacia, which refers to the act of threatening or warning of danger.	Noun
La sudadera	The sweater ✓	Tröjan	Noun	La sudadera es muy cómoda.	The sweater is very comfortable.	The word sudadera comes from sudar, meaning to sweat, reflecting the garments association with physical activity.	Noun
Aún mas	Even more ✓	Ännu mer	Adverb	Me gusta el chocolate, pero me gusta aún más el helado.	I love chocolate, but I love ice cream even more.	The phrase Aún más is used to emphasize an increase in degree or intensity, often found in comparative expressions in Spanish.	Adverb
Pensándolo bien	Weighing it carefully ✓	Tänker efter	Adverb	Pensándolo bien, creo que deberíamos esperar un poco.	Weighing it carefully, I think we should wait a bit.	The phrase Pensándolo bien suggests a moment of reflection before making a decision, highlighting the importance of careful consideration in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Adverb
Al pensarlo mejor	On second thought ✓	På andra tankar	Phrase	Al pensarlo mejor, tal vez deberíamos esperar.	On second thought, maybe we should wait.	The phrase Al pensarlo mejor reflects the Spanish languages tendency to express reconsideration or reflection more explicitly compared to English.	Phrase
Ahora que lo pienso	Now that i think about it ✓	Nu när jag tänker på det	Phrase	Ahora que lo pienso, debería llamar a mi amigo.	Now that I think about it, I should call my friend.	The phrase Ahora que lo pienso is commonly used in conversations when someone realizes something important or recalls a detail that changes their perspective.	Phrase
Azucarada	Sugary/sweet ✓	Söt	Adjective	La bebida es muy azucarada.	The drink is very sugary.	The term azucarada comes from azúcar, which means sugar in Spanish, highlighting the importance of sugar in many Latin American and Spanish desserts.	Adjective
El alimento	The food ✓	Maten	Noun	El alimento es esencial para la vida.	The food is essential for life.	The word alimento comes from the Latin alimentum, which means nourishment or food.	Noun
Adivinar	To guess ✓	Att gissa	Verb	Puedo adivinar tu edad.	I can guess your age.	The word adivinar comes from the Latin ad- meaning to and vinare meaning to divine, reflecting its association with predicting or determining something unknown.	Verb
Aun	Even/including ✓	Även	Adverb	Aun los niños pueden ayudar.	Even the children can help.	The Spanish word aun can mean even or still depending on the context, and its often confused with aún, which means still in terms of time.	Adverb
Con todo	With everything	Trots allt ✓	Preposition	Con todo, hice lo que debía.	With everything, I did what I had to do.	The phrase Con todo can mean with everything or despite everything, often expressing resilience in challenging situations.	Preposition
Después de todo	After all	När allt kommer omkring ✓	Phrase	Después de todo, decidí quedarme en casa.	After all, I decided to stay home.	Después de todo is often used to introduce a final consideration or conclusion, indicating a change of mind or perspective.	Phrase
Uno y otro	One and the other	Båda (i bemärkelsen båda parter) ✓	Conjunction/subjunction	Uno y otro están de acuerdo en el proyecto.	One and the other are in agreement on the project.	The phrase uno y otro highlights the concept of inclusivity between two entities, emphasizing that both are equally involved.	Conjunction/subjunction
Viene a ser lo mismo	It comes to the same thing	Det är ungefär samma sak ✓	Phrase	La oferta de la tienda y la del mercado vienen a ser lo mismo.	The stores offer and the markets come to be the same thing.	The phrase Viene a ser lo mismo is commonly used in Spanish to express similarity or equivalence, often in informal conversations.	Phrase
Ahora mismo	Now	Just nu ✓	Adverb	Voy a hacerlo ahora mismo.	I am going to do it right now.	Ahora mismo literally translates to right now and is commonly used in everyday conversations to emphasize immediacy.	Adverb
Aquí mismo	Here right here	Just här, precis här ✓	Adverb	Estoy esperando aquí mismo.	I am waiting right here.	The phrase aquí mismo emphasizes a precise location, often indicating that something is very close or immediate.	Adverb
Hoy mismo	Today	Just idag, redan idag ✓	Adverb	Te veré hoy mismo.	I will see you today.	The phrase Hoy mismo is often used to emphasize immediacy or urgency, literally translating to today itself.	Adverb
Por lo mismo	For the same reason	Av samma orsak, just därför ✓	Conjunction/subjunction	No fui a la fiesta; por lo mismo, no entendí lo que pasó.	I didnt go to the party; for the same reason, I didn’t understand what happened.	The phrase Por lo mismo is often used in conversations to emphasize causality, reflecting a logical connection between statements.	Conjunction/subjunction
Entre otras cosas	Amongst others	Bland annat ✓	Phrase	Hoy hablamos sobre la educación, entre otras cosas.	Today we talked about education, among other things.	Entre otras cosas is often used to indicate that a list is not exhaustive, implying there are additional items not mentioned.	Phrase
En cierto grado	Certain extent	Till en viss grad ✓	Phrase	En cierto grado, todos podemos aprender algo nuevo.	To a certain extent, we can all learn something new.	The phrase en cierto grado is often used to express the idea that something is true or applicable to some measure, reflecting the nuanced nature of Spanish expressions.	Phrase
Por cierto	By the way, For sure	Förresten (vid byte av samtalsämne), Definitivt ✓	Phrase	Por cierto, ¿has visto mi libro?	By the way, have you seen my book?	The phrase por cierto is often used to introduce a new topic casually in conversation, reflecting a shift in subject matter.	Phrase
Resultó que	It turned out that	Det visade sig att ✓	Conjunction/subjunction	Resultó que llovía durante la fiesta.	It turned out that it was raining during the party.	The phrase Resultó que is commonly used in Spanish to introduce unexpected conclusions or revelations, akin to saying it turned out that in English.	Conjunction/subjunction
O más bien	Or rather ✓	Eller snarare	Conjunction/subjunction	Ella es mi amiga, o más bien, mi mejor amiga.	She is my friend, or rather, my best friend.	The phrase O más bien is often used to clarify or correct oneself, showing the speakers intention to be more precise.	Conjunction/subjunction
Acordarse de	To remember	Att komma ihåg ✓	Verb	Yo me acuerdo de tu cumpleaños.	I remember your birthday.	Acordarse de is a reflexive verb in Spanish, which means it is often used with reflexive pronouns.	Verb
En (lo) que	In which / on which ✓	I vilken	Conjunction/subjunction	En que momento llegaste?	In which moment did you arrive?	En que is often used to introduce a specific context or condition in a sentence, showcasing its versatility in both questions and statements.	Conjunction/subjunction
De (lo) que	Of which / that ✓	Av vilken	Conjunction/subjunction	De que libro hablas?	Which book are you talking about?	The phrase de que is often used in Spanish to introduce relative clauses, adding details or specifications to a noun.	Conjunction/subjunction
Con (lo) que	With which / with what ✓	Med vilken	Conjunction/subjunction	Con que utensilio cocinas?	With what utensil do you cook?	The phrase Con que is often used to introduce questions about means or methods, showcasing the versatility of the word con in Spanish, which means with.	Conjunction/subjunction
A (lo) que	So that / at which ✓	Till vad	Conjunction/subjunction	No sé a qué hora llegaremos.	I dont know at what time we will arrive.	The phrase A que can indicate a specific point in time or a condition, often used to introduce a clause expressing uncertainty or inquiry.	Conjunction/subjunction
Sin (lo) que	Without (something happening) ✓	Utan	Conjunction/subjunction	No puedo salir sin que me llames.	I cant go out without you calling me.	Sin que indicates a lack of action, capturing a sense of dependency or condition in Spanish clause structures.	Conjunction/subjunction
Antes de (lo) que	Before (with subject/clause) ✓	Innan det	Conjunction/subjunction	Antes de que comas, lava tus manos.	Before you eat, wash your hands.	The phrase Antes de que literally means before that and is commonly used to introduce a condition or an action that must occur prior to another.	Conjunction/subjunction
Después de (lo) que	After (with subject/clause) ✓	Efter att	Conjunction/subjunction	Después de que comimos, vimos una película.	After we ate, we watched a movie.	Después de que is used to introduce a subordinate clause that indicates an action happening after another action has taken place.	Conjunction/subjunction
Para (lo) que	So that / in order to ✓	Så att	Conjunction/subjunction	Estudia todos los días para que pueda aprender más.	He studies every day so that he can learn more.	The phrase Para que is commonly used in Spanish to express purpose or intention, linking actions with their desired outcomes.	Conjunction/subjunction
Más que nada	More than anything	Först och främst, mer än något annat ✓	Phrase	Más que nada, quiero pasar tiempo con mi familia.	More than anything, I want to spend time with my family.	Fun fact: Más que nada is often used to emphasize the importance of something over all else in conversations.	Phrase
Para nada	Nothing at all	Inte alls ✓	Adverb	No me gusta el café, para nada.	I dont like coffee, not at all.	Para nada literally translates to for nothing, and its used to express negation or a strong disagreement in Spanish.	Adverb
Nada menos que	Nothing less than	Ingen (inget) mindre än ✓	Phrase	Ella ganó nada menos que el primer lugar.	She won nothing less than first place.	The phrase Nada menos que emphasizes the significance or importance of something, often used to elevate the subject in conversation.	Phrase
Permiso de conducir	Drivers license	Körkort ✓	Noun	Necesito renovar mi permiso de conducir.	I need to renew my drivers license.	The term permiso de conducir directly translates to permission to drive, highlighting its function as an official authorization for driving.	Noun
El alma (feminint)	The soul	Själen ✓	Noun	El alma es eterna.	The soul is eternal.	The word alma comes from the Latin anima, meaning breath or spirit, reflecting its connection to life and existence.	Noun
Primero, -a	First	Första ✓	Adjective	Hoy es el primero de diciembre.	Today is the first of December.	The word primero comes from Latin primarius, meaning of the first rank or primary, reflecting its association with being first in order or importance.	Adjective
Segundo, -a	Second	Andra ✓	Adjective	Ella llegó en segundo lugar.	She arrived in second place.	The term segundo comes from the Latin secundus, meaning following or second.	Adjective
Tercero, -a 	Third	Tredje ✓	Adjective	El libro está en la tercera estantería.	The book is on the third shelf.	The word tercero comes from Latin tertius, which also means third.	Adjective
Cuarto, -a	Fourth	Fjärde ✓	Adjective	El cuarto libro de la serie es muy interesante.	The fourth book in the series is very interesting.	The word cuarto comes from the Latin quartus, which means fourth.	Adjective
Quinto, -a	Fifth	Femte ✓	Adjective	Ella llegó quinta en la carrera.	She arrived fifth in the race.	The word quinto comes from the Latin quintus, which means fifth.	Adjective
Sexto, -a	Sixth	Sjätte ✓	Adjective	El sexto libro es interesante.	The sixth book is interesting.	The word sexto comes from the Latin sextus, which means sixth.	Adjective
Séptimo, -a	Seventh	Sjunde ✓	Adjective	Ella es la séptima en la fila.	She is the seventh in line.	The word séptimo comes from the Latin septimus, which also means seventh.	Adjective
Octavo, -a	Eighth	Åttonde ✓	Adjective	Mi cumpleaños es el octavo de diciembre.	My birthday is on the eighth of December.	The word octavo comes from the Latin octavus, meaning eighth, which is often used in contexts like music and books to indicate size or position.	Adjective
Noveno, -a	Ninth	Nionde ✓	Adjective	El noveno capítulo del libro es muy interesante.	The ninth chapter of the book is very interesting.	The word noveno comes from the Latin nona, which also means ninth.	Adjective
Décimo, -a	Tenth	Tionde ✓	Adjective	El décimo libro de la serie es muy interesante.	The tenth book in the series is very interesting.	The word décimo comes from the Latin decimus, which means tenth.	Adjective
Centésimo, -a	Hundredth	Hundrade ✓	Adjective	Mi hermano ganó el centésimo lugar en la carrera.	My brother came in the hundredth position in the race.	The term centésimo comes from the Latin centesimus, which means hundredth, and is used to describe the fractional part of a whole in mathematics.	Adjective
Milésimo, -a	Thousandth	Tusende ✓	Adjective	El milésimo día del año es especial.	The thousandth day of the year is special.	The word milésimo comes from the Latin mille, meaning thousand, and is commonly used in mathematical contexts to denote one part of a thousand.	Adjective
En pleno (en mitad de)	In the middle of	I mitten av ✓	Phrase	Estaba en pleno examen cuando sonó el teléfono.	I was in the middle of an exam when the phone rang.	The phrase en pleno originates from Latin plenus, meaning full, reflecting a sense of being fully present or immersed in an activity.	Phrase
A todo pulmón / a pleno pulmón	At the top of your lungs ✓	Hela lungorna	Phrase	Ella canta a todo pulmón en el concierto	She sings at the top of her lungs at the concert	The phrase a todo pulmón literally translates to with all ones lungs, highlighting the intensity and passion behind speaking or singing loudly.	Phrase
Quinientos	Five hundred	Femhundra	Noun	Quinientos estudiantes asistieron al evento	Five hundred students attended the event	Quinientos is a combination of cinco and cientos.	Noun
Setecientos	Seven hundred	Sjuhundra	Noun	Me costó setecientos pesos.	It cost me seven hundred pesos	Setecientos is a combination of siete and cientos.	Noun
Aprovecharse de	To take advantage of	Utnyttja ✓	Verb	Ella se aprovecha de la situación.	She takes advantage of the situation.	The phrase aprovecharse de often carries a negative connotation, implying exploitation rather than simply benefiting from a situation.	Verb
Sentarse al sol	To sit in the sun	Sätta sig i solen ✓	Verb	Me gusta sentarme al sol en la playa.	I like to sit in the sun on the beach.	The phrase sentarse al sol highlights the cultural enjoyment of sunny weather in Spanish-speaking countries, where outdoor relaxation is a common pastime.	Verb
Una cita a ciegas	A blind date ✓	En blind date	Phrase	Quedé con un amigo para una cita a ciegas.	I met a friend for a blind date.	The term blind date originated from the idea of meeting someone without knowing their appearance, which adds an element of surprise to the encounter.	Phrase
Escribir a mano	To write by hand	Skriva för hand ✓	Verb	Escribir a mano es importante en la educación.	Writing by hand is important in education.	Fun fact: Escribir a mano has been shown to enhance memory retention and understanding compared to typing.	Verb
Chico de los recados	The messenger boy	Springpojke ✓	Noun	El chico de los recados trae mensajes todos los días.	The messenger boy brings messages every day.	The term Chico de los recados originates from traditional roles where a young boy would deliver messages, reflecting a time when communication relied heavily on personal couriers.	Noun
Abusar de	To abuse	Missbruka ✓	Verb	No debes abusar de tu poder.	You should not abuse your power.	The verb abusar comes from the Latin abusare, which means to use improperly or excessively.	Verb
Acostumbrarse a 	To get used to	Att vänja sig vid ✓	Verb	Me estoy acostumbrando a vivir en la ciudad.	I am getting used to living in the city.	The verb acostumbrarse comes from the Latin accustomare, showing its roots in habits and routines.	Verb
Acudir a	Attend ✓	Att delta	Verb	Voy a acudir a la reunión mañana.	I am going to attend the meeting tomorrow.	The phrase acudir a often carries a connotation of urgency or need, highlighting the importance of the event being attended.	Verb
Acusar de	To accuse of	Anklaga  ✓	Verb	El policía acusó de robo al sospechoso.	The police officer accused the suspect of theft.	The phrase acusar de is frequently used in legal contexts in Spanish-speaking countries, highlighting the importance of accusation in law.	Verb
Adueñarse de	Take over	Ta över ✓	Verb	Ellos quieren adueñarse de la propiedad.	They want to take over the property.	The verb adueñarse de comes from the root dueño, meaning owner, and reflects the act of assuming control or possession.	Verb
Alegrarse de	To rejoice in	Bli glad att ✓	Verb	Me alegra de ver a mis amigos.	I am glad to see my friends.	The verb alegrarse de reflects the joy of an event or situation and is often used to express happiness about the well-being of others.	Verb
Alternar con	Alternate with ✓	Att växla med	Verb	Voy a alternar con mis actividades de ejercicio.	I am going to alternate with my exercise activities.	The verb alternar comes from the Latin alternare, meaning to interchange, highlighting its use in contexts of switching between options.	Verb
Apiadarse de	To take pity on ✓	Att ha medlidande med	Verb	Ella se apiadó de su perro abandonado.	She took pity on her abandoned dog.	The verb apiadarse de has its roots in the Latin word pietate, which means piety, reflecting a sense of compassion and empathy.	Verb
Aspirar a	To aspire to	Sträva efter, aspirera på ✓	Verb	Yo aspiro a ser médico.	I aspire to be a doctor.	The phrase aspirar a comes from the Latin aspirare, meaning to breathe towards, reflecting the idea of striving or aiming for something.	Verb
Asustarse de 	To be afraid of	Att vara/bli rädd för ✓	Verb	Me asusto de las alturas.	I am afraid of heights.	The verb asustarse comes from the Latin ad and sus which means to startle or frighten.	Verb
Avergonzarse de	To be ashamed of	Att skämmas för ✓	Verb	Me avergonzaré de mi error.	I will be ashamed of my mistake.	The verb avergonzarse comes from the Latin vulnerare, meaning to wound, illustrating the feeling of being hurt or wounded by ones actions.	Verb
Estoy lleno	Im full	Jag är mätt ✓	Phrase	Estoy lleno porque comí mucho	Im full because I ate a lot	The phrase Estoy lleno literally translates to I am full, and its commonly used after meals to express satisfaction.	Phrase
Por (lo) que	For what	För vilken/vilka ✓	Conjunction/subjunction	Por lo que decidimos no ir a la fiesta.	For what we decided not to go to the party.	Fun fact: The phrase por lo que is often used to express a reasoning or explanation, and it can be translated as for which in more formal contexts.	Conjunction/subjunction
A cuántos	How many	Till/för hur många ✓	Phrase	A cuántos años tienes?	How old are you?	The phrase A cuántos can be used to inquire quantity or age, reflecting the influence of both Latin and Arabic on Spanish as a rich conversational language.	Phrase
El acontecimiento	The event	Händelsen ✓	Noun	El acontecimiento fue extraordinario.	The event was extraordinary.	The word acontecimiento comes from the verb acontecer, meaning to happen or to occur, and is commonly used in both formal and informal contexts to refer to noteworthy events.	Noun
Capaz	Capable ✓	Kapabel	Adjective	Ella es capaz de resolver problemas difíciles.	She is capable of solving difficult problems.	The word capaz derives from the Latin capax, meaning able or capable, reflecting a long history of indicating ability and potential.	Adjective
Pasar la noche en vela	Spend the night awake ✓	Tillbringa natten vaken	Phrase	Ayer tuve que pasar la noche en vela.	Yesterday, I had to spend the night awake.	The phrase pasar la noche en vela literally translates to to spend the night in sail, suggesting a state of alertness rather than rest.	Phrase
El ajuar	The trosseau or dowry ✓	Den hemgift	Noun	El ajuar es un regalo importante en una boda.	The trousseau is an important gift at a wedding.	Fun fact: Ajuar stems from the Arabic word hawar, reflecting the historical influence of Arabic culture on the Spanish language.	Noun
Estar al caer	To be about to happen ✓	Att vara på väg att hända	Noun	La lluvia está al caer.	The rain is about to happen.	Estar al caer literally translates to to be hanging or to be pending, reflecting a sense of immediacy about an impending event.	Noun
Con los pies adelante	Feet first ✓	Fötter först	Phrase	Siempre hay que entrar en una aventura con los pies adelante.	You should always approach an adventure feet first.	The phrase con los pies adelante is often used to express taking initiative or diving into experiences without hesitation.	Phrase
La onza	The gold coin ✓	Den guldmynt	Noun	La onza es muy valiosa.	The gold coin is very valuable.	Fun fact: La onza originally referred to a Spanish gold currency used in the 16th century, often associated with wealth and trade.	Noun
El arca	The chest/trunk ✓	Kistan	Noun	El arca está llena de tesoros.	The chest is full of treasures.	The word arca comes from the Latin arca, meaning chest or box, and is often used in religious contexts, particularly associated with the Ark of the Covenant.	Noun
El segador	The reaper or harvester ✓	Den skördaren	Noun	El segador trabaja en el campo.	The reaper works in the field.	Fun fact: El segador is often associated with harvest time and symbolizes the end of one cycle and the beginning of another, reflecting the agricultural traditions in Spanish culture.	Noun
La reja	The iron grille/bar ✓	Järngrillan	Noun	La reja protege la ventana.	The iron grille protects the window.	The word reja originates from the Latin regia, meaning bar or grille, and it often symbolizes security in architecture.	Noun
Dormir como un tronco	To sleep like a log ✓	Sova som en stock	Phrase	Ayer dormí como un tronco	Yesterday I slept like a log	The phrase dormir como un tronco suggests a deep, undisturbed sleep, with tronco referring to a log, which implies stability and immobility.	Phrase
La mala sombra	The bad luck/misfortune ✓	Otur	Noun	La mala sombra siempre me sigue.	The bad luck always follows me.	The phrase La mala sombra is often used in Spanish-speaking cultures to describe a feeling of persistent misfortune or bad luck, highlighting the belief in lucks influence on life events.	Noun
La escopeta	The shotgun ✓	Hagelgeväret	Noun	La escopeta es pesada.	The shotgun is heavy.	The word escopeta comes from the Italian scopetta, which means a small gun.	Noun
Burlarse de	To mock	Skämta om, håna ✓	Verb	Él siempre se burla de sus amigos.	He always mocks his friends.	The verb burlarse de originates from the Spanish word burla, meaning mockery or joke, highlighting the playful yet sometimes hurtful nature of such actions.	Verb
Cansarse de	To get tired of	Bli trött av ✓	Verb	Me cansé de estudiar toda la noche.	I got tired of studying all night long.	Cansarse de reflects common human experiences of fatigue and boredom, emphasizing the importance of balance in activities.	Verb
Caracterizarse por	To be characterized by	Karaktäriseras av ✓	Verb	El clima en esta región se caracteriza por ser templado.	The climate in this region is characterized by being mild.	The phrase caracterizarse por is commonly used in Spanish to describe defining traits or features of people, places, or things.	Verb
Carecer de	To lack of  ✓	Att sakna	Verb	El perro carece de comida.	The dog lacks food.	Carecer de comes from the Latin carere, which means to be without.	Verb
Coincidir con	To coincide with ✓	Att sammanfalla med	Verb	La reunión va a coincidir con el partido.	The meeting is going to coincide with the game.	Coincidir comes from the Latin coincidere, which means to fall together, illustrating the idea of two events happening at the same time.	Verb
Colaborar con	To collaborate with	Samarbeta med ✓	Verb	Voy a colaborar con mis amigos en el proyecto.	I am going to collaborate with my friends on the project.	The verb colaborar comes from the Latin collaborare, where com- means together and laborare means to work, reflecting the idea of working together.	Verb
Conectar con	To connect with ✓	Att koppla ihop med	Verb	Me gusta conectar con amigos.	I like to connect with friends.	The verb conectar comes from the Latin connectere, which means to join together.	Verb
Conectarse a (internet)	To connect to (the internet) ✓	Att ansluta till (internet)	Verb	Yo necesito conectarme a internet.	I need to connect to the internet.	The verb conectarse comes from the Latin connectere, which means to link or join together.	Verb
Conformarse con	To be satisfied with, to settle for ✓	Att anpassa sig till	Verb	Me conformo con lo que tengo.	I am satisfied with what I have.	The phrase conformarse con often implies a sense of resignation rather than genuine satisfaction, reflecting cultural nuances in acceptance.	Verb
Confundir con	To confuse with	Att bli förvirrad av ✓	Verb	Me confundo con las fechas.	I confuse with the dates.	The verb confundir comes from the Latin confundere, meaning to pour together, which reflects the idea of mixing things up.	Verb
Contar con	To count on	Att räkna med (någon) ✓	Verb	Siempre puedo contar con mis amigos.	I can always count on my friends.	The phrase contar con comes from the Latin computare, which means to calculate, showing that it originally had a numerative sense before evolving into to rely on.	Verb
Convencer de	To convince of	Övertyga om ✓	Verb	Ella quiere convencer de su idea a los demás.	She wants to convince others of her idea.	The verb convencer originates from Latin convincere, meaning to overcome or to conquer.	Verb
Convertir en 	Convert to	Bli, konvertera ✓	Verb	Quiero convertir en una mariposa.	I want to convert into a butterfly.	The verb convertir comes from the Latin convertere, which means to turn around or change.	Verb
Dedicarse a	Dedicate yourself, devote ✓	Dedikera sig till	Verb	Me dedico a aprender español.	I dedicate myself to learning Spanish.	The phrase dedicarse a comes from Latin dedicare, which means to devote or consecrate, highlighting a strong commitment to a task or calling.	Verb
Desconfiar de	Mistrust, be suspicious of, have no trust in ✓	Misstänka	Verb	Desconfío de sus intenciones.	I mistrust his intentions.	The verb desconfiar comes from the prefix des-, indicating negation, and confiar, which means to trust.	Verb
Desistir de	Give up on, stop ✓	Att avstå från	Verb	Decidí desistir de mis estudios.	I decided to give up on my studies.	The verb desistir is derived from the Latin desistere, meaning to stand down or abandon, which reflects its meaning of stopping or giving up on an action.	Verb
Desligarse de	To disengage from	Separera sig från ✓	Verb	Es importante desligarse de las malas influencias.	It is important to disengage from bad influences.	The verb desligarse comes from ligar, meaning to tie, so desligarse implies the action of untying oneself from something.	Verb
Despedirse de	To quit, to leave (your job) ✓	Att lämna (ditt jobb)	Verb	Hoy me despido de mi trabajo.	Today I am leaving my job.	The phrase despedirse de comes from the Latin dis-, meaning apart, and pedire, meaning to ask.	Verb
Despedir	To dismiss	Avskeda ✓	Verb	Voy a despedir a mi empleado.	I am going to dismiss my employee.	The verb despedir comes from the Latin dispedire, meaning to send away.	Verb
Despreocuparse	To be unconcerned	Sluta oroa sig, slappna av ✓	Verb	Es importante despreocuparse de los problemas menores.	It is important to be unconcerned about minor problems.	The verb despreocuparse derives from preocuparse, which means to worry, with the prefix des- suggesting the removal or negation of worry.	Verb
Despreocuparse de	Ignore, neglect ✓	Att ignorera	Verb	Ella decidió despreocuparse de lo que piensen los demás.	She decided to ignore what others think.	The term despreocuparse comes from the prefix des-, meaning to reverse or negate, and preocuparse, which means to worry.	Verb
Desvivirse por	Go out of our way / do your utmost ✓	Att gå ut över sig själv	Verb	Yo me desvivo por ayudar a mis amigos.	I go out of my way to help my friends.	The phrase desvivirse por literally means to go out of ones life for, emphasizing the extreme effort one puts into something.	Verb
Dimitir de	To resign	Avgå ✓	Verb	El político decidió dimitir de su cargo.	The politician decided to resign from his position.	The verb dimitir comes from the Latin dimittere, meaning to send away or to dismiss, reflecting the act of leaving a position.	Verb
Diplomarse en	To graduate in ✓	Att ta examen i	Verb	Me voy a diplomar en medicina.	Im going to graduate in medicine.	The verb diplomarse en originates from the noun diploma, which refers to the certificate received upon graduation, emphasizing the formal recognition of academic achievement.	Verb
Disfrutar de 	Enjoy	Njuta av ✓	Verb	Me gusta disfrutar de la música.	I like to enjoy music.	The verb disfrutar comes from the Latin disfructare, meaning to enjoy, to take pleasure in.	Verb
A quien	To whom ✓	Till vem	Pronoun	A quien le entregaste la carta?	To whom did you give the letter?	The phrase A quien is often used in questions to inquire about the recipient of an action, showcasing the importance of direct and indirect objects in Spanish grammar.	Pronoun
Tan pronto como	As soon as ✓	Så snart	Conjunction/subjunction	Tan pronto como llegues, empezaremos la fiesta.	As soon as you arrive, we will start the party.	The phrase Tan pronto como is often used to indicate that one action will occur immediately after another, highlighting a sense of urgency and immediacy in Spanish.	Conjunction/subjunction
El logro	The achivement ✓	Prestationen	Noun	El logro es importante para el éxito.	The achievement is important for success.	The word logro comes from the Latin lucrare, meaning to gain or obtain, which highlights the significance of achieving something valuable.	Noun
Lograrse	To be succesfull, to reach your goals ✓	Att lyckas	Verb	Es importante que cada persona pueda lograrse.	It is important for everyone to be able to succeed.	The verb lograrse derives from lograr, which originally meant to reach or to achieve, highlighting the emphasis on personal accomplishment.	Verb
Lograr	Manage, reach / get, attain ✓	Att uppnå	Verb	Logré mis metas este año.	I achieved my goals this year.	The verb lograr comes from the Latin lucrari, meaning to gain or to profit.	Verb
Enamorarse de	To fall in love with	Bli kär i ✓	Verb	Me enamoré de su sonrisa.	I fell in love with her smile.	The verb enamorarse comes from the Latin inamorare, which means to inflame, to inspire love.	Verb
Encargarse de	Take care of, be responsible for ✓	Att ta hand om	Verb	Me encargo de la limpieza de la casa.	I take care of the cleaning of the house.	The phrase encargarse de derives from the verb cargar, which means to load or to charge, implying a responsibility or burden one assumes.	Verb
En cuanto esto pase	As soon as this passes ✓	Så snart detta går över	Conjunction/subjunction	En cuanto esto pase, volveré a salir.	As soon as this passes, I will go out again.	The phrase En cuanto esto pase reflects a conditional mood in Spanish, highlighting the significance of timing and context in everyday conversations.	Conjunction/subjunction
Hervir de ira	Boil with rage	Koka av ilska ✓	Phrase	Ella hervía de ira cuando supo la verdad.	She was boiling with rage when she found out the truth.	The phrase hervir de ira literally means to boil with anger, using the metaphor of boiling to express extreme emotions.	Phrase
Hervirle la sangre a alguien	Make someones blood boil ✓	Koka blodet på någon	Phrase	Ese comentario le hirvió la sangre a Juan	That comment made Juans blood boil	The phrase Hervirle la sangre a alguien reflects the intense emotion often described in languages as boiling to convey anger or frustration.	Phrase
Herir	Hurt, wound, injure ✓	Att skada	Verb	No quiero herir tus sentimientos.	I dont want to hurt your feelings.	The verb herir comes from the Latin ferire, meaning to strike or hit.	Verb
La herida	The wound/injury ✓	Såret	Noun	La herida duele mucho.	The wound hurts a lot.	The word herida comes from the Latin veredus meaning to strike, which reflects its connection to injury.	Noun
Borrar (de)	Erase, remove, delete ✓	Att radera	Verb	Voy a borrar la información.	I am going to erase the information.	The verb borrar comes from the Latin borrāre, which means to erase or to delete.	Verb
Oso perezoso	Sloth	Sengångare ✓	Noun	El oso perezoso es un animal muy lento.	The sloth is a very slow animal.	Fun fact: Oso perezoso literally means lazy bear in Spanish.	Noun
Mudarse de	Move	Att flytta / byta (kläder) ✓	Verb	Me voy a mudar de casa.	I am going to move house.	Fun fact: Mudarse de is often used to indicate moving from one place to another, like relocating to a new home.	Verb
Indignar a	Anger, outrage, make angry ✓	Att göra arg	Verb	Le indignó a Carla que no la invitaran a la reunión	Carla was outraged that she wasn’t invited to the meeting.	Fun fact: Indignar a is often used to express moral outrage and can be related to social justice issues.	Verb
Indignarse	Be outraged / get angry ✓	Att bli upprörd	Verb	Me indigno cuando veo injusticias.	I get outraged when I see injustices.	Indignarse is often used to express strong emotions about social issues.	Verb
No soporto que 	"I can&#x27;t stand that ✓"	Jag står inte ut med att	Verb	No soporto que la gente mienta.	I cant stand that people lie.	No soporto que is often used to express strong feelings of frustration or annoyance in Spanish.	Verb
Estar harto de	To be sick of sick of, to be fed up with ✓	Att vara trött på	Verb	Estoy harto de esperar	I am fed up with waiting	Estar harto de is commonly used to express frustration or annoyance with a situation.	Verb
Siento (lo siento)	Im sorry	Förlåt ✓	Verb	Lo siento mucho	Im very sorry	The phrase Lo siento is commonly used in Spanish to express empathy or regret in various situations.	Verb
Rogar que	To beg that	Att be om ✓	Verb	Ruego que vengas a la fiesta.	I beg that you come to the party.	Rogar que is often used in formal requests or expressions of strong desire in Spanish.	Verb
Aconsejar, recomendar	Advise, recommend	Att rekommendera ✓	Verb	Te aconsejo que leas este libro.	I advise you to read this book.	Aconsejar and recomendar can often be used interchangeably, but recomendar is more commonly used for informal suggestions.	Verb
Sugerir	Suggest ✓	Att föreslå	Verb	Te sugiero que vayas al médico.	I suggest that you go to the doctor.	Sugerir is commonly used in the context of giving advice or recommendations in Spanish.	Verb
Sonreír 	To smile	Att le ✓	Verb	Me gusta sonreír	I like to smile	The verb sonreír is commonly used in everyday conversations in Spanish to express happiness or friendliness.	Verb
El horno	The oven	Ugnen ✓	Noun	El horno está caliente.	The oven is hot.	El horno is commonly used in both cooking and baking contexts in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
El frigorífico / la heladera / la nevera	The refrigerator	Kylskåpen  ✓	Noun	El frigorífico está lleno de comida.	The refrigerator is full of food.	In different Spanish-speaking countries, the word for refrigerator varies; heladera is commonly used in Argentina while nevera is used in some parts of Spain.	Noun
Fregar / lavar	To wash	Att diska  ✓	Verb	Voy a fregar los platos.	I am going to wash the dishes.	In some regions, fregar is more commonly used for washing dishes, while lavar can refer to washing more generally.	Verb
El ratón 	The mouse	Datormusen ✓	Noun	El ratón está sobre la mesa.	The mouse is on the table.	El ratón is commonly used in both computer terminology and in reference to the animal in Spanish.	Noun
La alfombrilla	The mat	Musmattan, mattan ✓	Noun	La alfombrilla es suave.	The mat is soft.	Fun fact: La alfombrilla can refer to various types of mats, including mouse pads!	Noun
El cajón	Drawer	Lådan ✓	Noun 	El cajón está lleno de ropa.	The drawer is full of clothes.	El cajón is commonly used in everyday conversations to refer to any type of drawer in furniture.	Noun
La impresora	The printer	Skrivaren ✓	Noun	La impresora está encendida.	The printer is on.	La impresora is used in Spanish-speaking countries to refer to a specific printer, often with a focus on its status or functionality.	Noun
La papelera	The wastebasket	Papperskorgen ✓	Noun	La papelera está llena.	The wastebasket is full.	La papelera is commonly used in schools and offices to refer to a container for disposing of paper and other waste.	Noun
La garganta	The throat	Halsen (på insidan) ✓	Noun	La garganta duele hoy.	The throat hurts today.	La garganta is commonly used when discussing symptoms related to sore throats in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
La barba	The beard	Skägget ✓	Noun	La barba es larga.	The beard is long.	La barba is often a symbol of wisdom and maturity in many cultures.	Noun
El bigote	The mustache	Mustaschen ✓	Noun	El bigote es muy elegante.	The mustache is very elegant.	El bigote is often seen as a symbol of masculinity in various cultures.	Noun
Llevar barba	To wear a beard	Ha skägg ✓	Verb	Él lleva barba.	He wears a beard.	Llevar barba is commonly used in Spanish to describe someone who has chosen to grow a beard, reflecting personal style or cultural identity.	Verb
Llevar bigote	To wear a mustache	Ha mustasch  ✓	Verb	Él lleva bigote.	He wears a mustache.	In Spanish-speaking cultures, llevar bigote not only refers to the act of wearing a mustache but can also indicate a certain personal style or identity.	Verb
Ser/estar calvo	To be bald	Vara skallig ✓	Verb	Él es calvo.	He is bald.	In Spanish, ser is used to describe an inherent characteristic, such as being bald.	Verb
Promover a	To promote ✓	Att gå i god för	Verb	Voy a promover a mi amigo para el puesto.	I am going to promote my friend for the position.	Promover a is often used in professional contexts to discuss job advancements.	Verb
La viuda	The widow	Änkan ✓	Noun	La viuda vive sola.	The widow lives alone.	In Spanish literature, La viuda often symbolizes resilience and strength in facing challenges.	Noun
El propósito	Intent, intention / purpose, aim ✓	Syftet	Noun	El propósito de este proyecto es ayudar a la comunidad.	The purpose of this project is to help the community.	El propósito is often used in discussions about goals or objectives in both personal and professional contexts.	Noun
Aspirar	To aspire	Andas in / dammsuga ✓	Verb	Voy a aspirar la casa hoy.	I am going to vacuum the house today.	Aspirar can also mean to aspire in a figurative sense, such as to aim for a goal.	Verb
Encajarse algo	Throw on, put on (clothes) (colloquial) ✓	Att sätta på sig	Verb	Hoy me voy a encajarme la chaqueta.	Today Im going to put on the jacket.	Encajarse algo is often used informally and can also refer to putting on accessories or other items of clothing.	Verb
El difunto	The body, the corpse ✓	Liket	Noun	El difunto fue enterrado ayer.	The corpse was buried yesterday.	El difunto is often used in formal contexts, especially in legal or medical discussions regarding deceased individuals.	Noun
Difunto	Late, deceased ✓	Avliden	Adjective	El difunto fue recordado por su amabilidad.	The deceased was remembered for his kindness.	In Spanish, difunto is often used in formal contexts when referring to someone who has passed away.	Adjective
Pertenecer a	Belong to	Tillhöra, ägas av ✓	Verb	Este libro pertenece a la biblioteca.	This book belongs to the library.	Pertenecer a is often used to indicate ownership or belonging, commonly in contexts involving objects or groups.	Verb
Envuelto en 	Wrapped up in, covered in, mixed up in ✓	Inbäddad i	Adjective	Estoy envuelto en una manta.	I am wrapped up in a blanket.	Envuelto en can describe both physical and emotional states, enhancing the depth of expression in Spanish.	Adjective
Envolver	Cover, surround, envelop / involve ✓	Att involvera	Verb	Quiero envolver el regalo para mi amigo.	I want to wrap the gift for my friend.	Fun fact: Envolver can also mean to involve someone in an activity or situation.	Verb
El candidato	The candidate	Kandidaten ✓	Noun	El candidato está preparado para el debate.	The candidate is prepared for the debate.	El candidato is commonly used in political contexts to refer to a person running for office.	Noun
Inmóvil	Motionless, still ✓	Orörlig	Adjective	El gato estaba inmóvil en la ventana.	The cat was motionless in the window.	Inmóvil is often used to describe animals or objects that are not moving.	Adjective
Alejarse de	Move away / get away from ✓	Att avlägsna sig från	Verb	Es importante alejarse de las cosas negativas.	It is important to move away from negative things.	Alejarse de is often used in contexts involving emotional or physical distance.	Verb
Alejar a	Put off, drive away (someone) ✓	Att avlägsna	Verb	La actitud negativa puede alejar a las personas.	A negative attitude can drive people away.	Alejar a is often used to describe actions or behaviors that create distance between people or groups.	Verb
Adentrarse	Go into, penetrate into / go deep into, get to the heart of ✓	Att tränga in	Verb	Voy a adentrarme en el bosque.	I am going to penetrate into the forest.	Adentrarse is often used in contexts involving exploration or deep investigation.	Verb
Alzar	Lift up, elevate / raise ✓	Att lyfta	Verb	Voy a alzar la mano.	I am going to raise my hand.	Alzar can also be used in contexts like raising a flag or lifting spirits.	Verb
Echar una ojeada a	Keep a look on ✓	Att ta en titt på	Verb	Voy a echar una ojeada a mis correos.	I am going to take a look at my emails.	Echar una ojeada a is commonly used in everyday conversation to suggest checking something quickly.	Verb
Ojear	To take a look, to scan ✓	Att ojka	Verb	Voy a ojear el libro antes de comprarlo.	I am going to take a look at the book before buying it.	Ojear is often used in contexts like browsing books or scanning documents, emphasizing a quick look rather than in-depth reading.	Verb
La manzana	The apple	Kvarteret ✓	Noun	La manzana es roja.	The apple is red.	La manzana is often used in Spanish to refer to the fruit, and it can also signify a city block or neighborhood in urban contexts.	Noun
El ladrillo	The brick ✓	Tegelstenen	Noun	El ladrillo es una herramienta de construcción.	The brick is a construction tool.	El ladrillo is often used in Spanish-speaking countries as a fundamental material in architecture and construction.	Noun
Ladrillo	Bore, drag (colloquial) ✓	Trist	Adjective	Ver esa película fue un verdadero ladrillo.	Watching that movie was such a bore.	Ladrillo can also refer to something tedious or dull in a colloquial context.	Adjective
Suceder	To happen, to occur / to succeed ✓	Att hända, att lyckas	Verb	¿Qué va a suceder mañana?	What is going to happen tomorrow?	The verb suceder can be used in both positive and neutral contexts, unlike other verbs which may carry a more negative connotation.	Verb
Santo varón	Dimwit, jackass, twat  ✓	Den heliga mannen	Noun	Eres un santo varón.	You are a dimwit.	Santo varón is often used humorously in Spanish to describe someone who is perceived as foolish or silly.	Noun
El varón	Male ✓	Han	Noun	El varón corre rápidamente.	The male runs quickly.	El varón is often used to refer specifically to adult males in various contexts in Spanish.	Noun
La dama	The lady ✓	Damens	Noun	La dama es elegante.	The lady is elegant.	La dama can refer to a woman of high social status or grace.	Noun
La certeza	The certainty, conviction ✓	Säkerheten	Noun	La certeza es fundamental en la toma de decisiones.	The certainty is fundamental in decision making.	La certeza is often used in contexts where confidence and assurance are necessary, such as in legal or academic discussions.	Noun
Con certeza	With certainty, for sure ✓	Med säkerhet	Adverb	Con certeza, ganaré el partido.	With certainty, I will win the match.	Con certeza is often used to express confidence in a situation or outcome.	Adverb
Tener la certeza de	To be sure of ✓	Att vara säker på	Verb	Tengo la certeza de que vendrás.	I am sure that you will come.	Tener la certeza de is often used to express strong confidence in a belief or expectation.	Verb
Primogénito	Firstborn	Förstfödda ✓	Adjective	Mi hermano es el primogénito de la familia.	My brother is the firstborn of the family.	‘Primogénito’ is often used in legal contexts to refer to inheritance rights in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Adjective
Cargarse de algo	Take responsibility/charge of ✓	Ta ansvar	Verb	Tengo que cargarme de la organización del evento.	I have to take responsibility for organizing the event.	Cargarse de algo is often used in contexts where someone takes on a task or obligation, showing accountability.	Verb
El asombro	The astonishment / surprise ✓	Förvåningen	Noun	El asombro fue evidente en su rostro.	The astonishment was evident on his face.	El asombro is often used to express a strong sense of surprise or wonder.	Noun
Asombrar	To astonish, to shock, to surprise ✓	Att förvåna	Verb	Me asombra la belleza de la naturaleza.	The beauty of nature astonishes me.	Asombrar is often used to express amazement at something surprising or extraordinary.	Verb
El síntoma	The symptom ✓	Symtomet	Noun	El síntoma aparece cuando hay una enfermedad.	The symptom appears when there is an illness.	Fun fact: El síntoma is commonly used in medical contexts to describe indicators of health issues.	Noun
La joya	The jewel, gem ✓	Juvelen	Noun	La joya brilla bajo la luz.	The jewel shines under the light.	La joya can also refer to a person as a term of endearment in some contexts.	Noun
El balneario	The spa ✓	Spa	Noun	El balneario es un lugar para relajarse.	The spa is a place to relax.	El balneario often refers to a destination known for its therapeutic waters and wellness treatments.	Noun
Inmejorable	Perfect	Perfekt, utmärkt ✓	Adjective	La calidad de este hotel es inmejorable.	The quality of this hotel is perfect.	Inmejorable is often used in Spanish to describe something that cannot be improved, highlighting its excellence.	Adjective
Gastar dinero	To spend money	Slösa/spendera pengar ✓	Verb	Me gusta gastar dinero en libros.	I like to spend money on books.	Gastar dinero is often used casually in conversations about shopping and leisure activities.	Verb
El presupuesto	The budget	Budgeten ✓	Noun	El presupuesto es importante para la planificación financiera.	The budget is important for financial planning.	El presupuesto is commonly used in discussions about personal and governmental finance.	Noun
Funesta	Fateful, terrible, disastrous ✓	Ödesdiger	Adjective	La decisión fue funesta para el futuro de la empresa.	The decision was fateful for the companys future.	Funesta is often used in literature and history to describe events with disastrous outcomes.	Adjective
Heredar	To inherit	Ärva, ta över ✓	Verb	Voy a heredar la casa de mis abuelos.	I will inherit my grandparents house.	The verb heredar is commonly used in legal contexts when discussing inheritances.	Verb
Los guantes	The gloves	Handskarna ✓	Noun	Los guantes son rojos.	The gloves are red.	Los guantes can refer not only to gloves in general but also to specific types like winter gloves or baseball mitts.	Noun
La tranvía	The tram	Spårvagnen ✓	Noun	La tranvía pasa por el centro de la ciudad.	The tram goes through the city center.	Fun fact: La tranvía is often used in urban areas to describe a popular mode of public transport.	Noun
Recorrer por	Go down, go trough  ✓	Att gå igenom	Verb	Voy a recorrer por el parque en la tarde.	I am going to go down through the park in the afternoon.	Recorrer por is often used to describe exploring or walking through an area.	Verb
Recorrer	Look over, look around ✓	Att se sig omkring	Verb	Quiero recorrer la ciudad mañana.	I want to look around the city tomorrow.	Recorrer can imply exploring or traversing an area in depth.	Verb
La billetera	The wallet ✓	Plånboken	Noun	La billetera está en la mesa.	The wallet is on the table.	La billetera is often used to refer to a wallet specifically for money and cards in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
Ser un personaje	To be a character (unique) ✓	Att vara en karaktär	Phrase	Es divertido ser un personaje en la fiesta.	Its fun to be a character at the party.	Ser un personaje often describes someone with a unique and memorable personality.	Phrase
Acusar a alguien de algo	To accuse someone of something ✓	Att anklaga någon för något	Phrase	Ella decidió acusar a alguien de robo.	She decided to accuse someone of theft.	Acusar a alguien de algo is often used in legal contexts as well as in everyday conversations.	Phrase
A la parrilla	On the grill (grilled) ✓	På grillen	Phrase	Me gusta el pollo a la parrilla.	I like grilled chicken.	A la parrilla is commonly used in Spanish-speaking countries to describe a cooking method that enhances flavor through grilling.	Phrase
La habilidad	The skill ✓	Den färdigheten	Noun	La habilidad es importante.	The skill is important.	The skill refers to a specific ability that can enhance a persons capabilities in various activities.	Noun
¡Eso sí que eran vacaciones!	Now that was a vacation ✓	Nu var det verkligen semester!	Phrase	Después de tanto tiempo, ¡eso sí que eran vacaciones!	After such a long time, now that was a vacation!	The phrase ¡eso sí que eran vacaciones! often evokes nostalgia for memorable travel experiences.	Phrase
El trayecto	Route / journey ✓	Rutten	Noun	El trayecto es muy bonito.	The route is very beautiful.	El trayecto is often used to describe a journey that includes specific scenery or landmarks.	Noun
Al alcance de	Within reach of ✓	Inom räckhåll till	Preposition	La tienda está al alcance de todos.	The store is within reach of everyone.	The phrase Al alcance de is often used to describe accessibility or availability in various contexts.	Preposition
El alcance	Range, reach, scope / significance ✓	Räckvidden	Noun	El alcance de este proyecto es impresionante.	The reach of this project is impressive.	El alcance is often used in contexts discussing the impact or importance of initiatives.	Noun
Encajar	Fit, fit together (också typ sjuttioelva andra betydelser) ✓	Att passa	Verb	Esta pieza encaja perfectamente en el rompecabezas.	This piece fits perfectly in the puzzle.	Encajar is often used not only for physical fitting but also in abstract contexts, such as fitting into a group or situation.	Verb
Surgir	Emerge, rise up, appear  ✓	Att framträda	Verb	Las ideas suelen surgir en momentos de inspiración.	Ideas often emerge in moments of inspiration.	Surgir can be used in various contexts, often relating to the emergence of ideas or feelings.	Verb
Trastornado	Distraught, disturbed ✓	Upprörd	Adjective	Él estaba trastornado por la noticia.	He was distraught by the news.	Trastornado is often used to describe a strong emotional reaction to distressing events.	Adjective
La doncella	The maid, housemaid (literally virgin woman) ✓	Flickan	Noun	La doncella limpia la casa cada día.	The maid cleans the house every day.	La doncella can refer to a young woman or maid, often evoking a sense of innocence or purity in literature.	Noun
Exigente	Demanding, tough, strict ✓	Krävande	Adjective	El profesor es muy exigente.	The teacher is very demanding.	Exigente is often used to describe a person who has high standards and expectations.	Adjective
El castigo	The punishment	Straffet / bördan  ✓	Noun	El castigo fue severo.	The punishment was severe.	El castigo is commonly used in literature to refer to various forms of justice or retribution.	Noun
La ola	The wave	Vågen (vatten) ✓	Noun	La ola es grande.	The wave is big.	La ola can refer to both a physical wave in water and a wave of excitement or emotion in figurative language.	Noun
La gaviota	The seagull	Fiskmåsen ✓	Noun	La gaviota vuela sobre el mar.	The seagull flies over the sea.	In Spanish, La gaviota is often used in literature to symbolize freedom and adventure.	Noun
Navegar	To navigate	Segla, navigera ✓	Verb	Me gusta navegar en el mar.	I enjoy to navigate on the sea.	Navegar is often used in both literal and metaphorical contexts, such as navigating through life or challenges.	Verb
Navegar (por la red / el internet)	To surf (the net)	Surfa (på nätet) ✓	Verb	Me gusta navegar por el internet.	I like to surf the internet.	Navegar por el internet is commonly used in Spanish-speaking countries to refer to browsing the web.	Verb
Navegar contra (la) corriente	Navigate against the current	Gå emot strömmen / anstränga sig extra ✓	Phrase	Es necesario navegar contra la corriente para alcanzar el éxito.	It is necessary to navigate against the current to achieve success.	The phrase navegar contra (la) corriente is often used to describe those who strive to succeed despite difficulties.	Phrase
Sumergir	Submerge, immerge, plunge ✓	Att sänka	Verb	Voy a sumergir la fruta en agua.	I am going to submerge the fruit in water.	Sumergir is often used in cooking, especially when preparing recipes that involve soaking or marinating ingredients.	Verb
Embriagar	To intoxicate	Att vara förtrollande/berusande (parfym) ✓	Verb	La fragancia puede embriagar los sentidos.	The fragrance can intoxicate the senses.	Embriagar is often used in literature to describe strong emotions or experiences, particularly those related to fragrances.	Verb
El bolero	Bolero	Bolero (en typ av musik från karibien) / ballad ✓	Noun	El bolero es un género musical romántico.	The bolero is a romantic music genre.	El bolero is a popular dance form as well as a music style, especially in Latin America.	Noun
El rumor	Rumour / buzz / murmur ✓	Ryktet	Noun	El rumor se extendió rápidamente por la ciudad.	The rumor spread quickly through the city.	El rumor is often used to describe information that is unverified or speculative.	Noun
Un rato	A while, a short moment ✓	En stund	Noun	Voy a salir un rato.	I am going to go out for a while.	Un rato is commonly used to indicate a short, indefinite period of time in conversations.	Noun
Al (poco) rato	Later	En stund senare / om en stund ✓	Adverb	Al poco rato, salimos a caminar.	A little later, we went out for a walk.	Al (poco) rato is commonly used to refer to a short period of time that has passed before something happens.	Adverb
A cada rato	Often	Ofta, frekvent  ✓	Adverb	Voy al parque a cada rato.	I go to the park often.	A cada rato is frequently used in informal conversations in Spanish-speaking countries to express regularity or frequency.	Adverb
Hace rato	"It&#x27;s been a while (colloquial) ✓"	Det har gått ett tag	Phrase	Hace rato que no te veo	Its been a while since I last saw you	Fun fact: Hace rato is often used in casual conversations to refer to anything that happened some time ago.	Phrase
Rato libre	Free time, a spare moment, spare time ✓	Fritid	Phrase	En mi rato libre, me gusta leer.	In my free time, I enjoy reading.	Rato libre is commonly used to refer to moments when one can relax or engage in leisure activities.	Phrase
Cómodo	Comfortable	Bekväm (även person) ✓	Adjective	Este sofá es muy cómodo.	This sofa is very comfortable.	Cómodo can also describe a person who is easygoing or relaxed.	Adjective
A grandes rasgos	In broad terms, roughly speaking ✓	I stora drag	Phrase	A grandes rasgos, el proyecto será beneficioso para todos.	In broad terms, the project will be beneficial for everyone.	A grandes rasgos is often used to summarize complex ideas in a more digestible way.	Phrase
Los rasgos (endast i plural)	The features, characteristics ✓	Funktionerna	Noun	Los rasgos son importantes para entender la personalidad.	The features are important to understand personality.	Los rasgos is commonly used in psychology to describe characteristics of individuals.	Noun
Poseer	Possess  ✓	Att besitta	Verb	Yo poseo un libro interesante.	I possess an interesting book.	The verb Poseer is often used to indicate ownership of both physical items and abstract concepts.	Verb
Ceder	To yield	Ge upp (ge uppt ditt säte, eller generellt) ✓	Verb	Voy a ceder mi asiento a la anciana.	I will yield my seat to the elderly woman.	Ceder is often used in contexts involving generosity or politeness, especially when giving up something for someone else.	Verb
La mente	Mind	Sinnet ✓	Verb	La mente es poderosa.	The mind is powerful.	In Spanish, la mente refers to the mind as a center of thought and creativity.	Verb
Dueño/Dueña	Owner	Ägare (generellt) / Hyresvärd	Noun	El dueño es amable.	The owner is nice.	Dueño means owner.	Noun
Trenzar	To braid	Att fläta ✓	Verb	Ella va a trenzar su cabello.	She is going to braid her hair.	Trenzar not only means to braid but can also refer to weaving various materials together.	Verb
La trenza	The braid	Flätan ✓	Noun	Me hice una bonita trenza.	I made a pretty braid.	La trenza is often used in fashion and hair tutorials.	Noun
Embriagar/emborrachar	To get drunk, to make drunk ✓	Att bli berusad, att berusa	Verb	No debes embriagar a tus amigos.	You should not make your friends drunk.	In Spanish, embriagar and emborrachar are often used interchangeably, but emborrachar is more colloquial.	Verb
Embriagarse/emborracharse	To get (oneself) drunk  ✓	Att berusa sig	Verb	Juan decidió embriagarse en la fiesta.	Juan decided to get drunk at the party.	In some regions, emborracharse is commonly used in everyday conversation.	Verb
La superficie	The surface	Ytan ✓	Noun	La superficie del agua es clara.	The surface of the water is clear.	La superficie is often used in scientific contexts to describe the area of different objects or substances.	Noun
En su fuero interno	Inner self	I sitt innersta (jag) ✓	Phrase	Él sabía, en su fuero interno, que debía cambiar de trabajo.	He knew, in his inner self, that he needed to change jobs.	En su fuero interno is often used to express deep, personal feelings or truths that one may not openly acknowledge.	Phrase
Bastar (¡ya basta!)	Enough	Att räcka (det räcker!) ✓	Verb	¡Ya basta de quejarse!	Enough of complaining!	The phrase ¡ya basta! is often used to express frustration or to call for an end to something.	Verb
Presumir de	To boast about	Att skryta om ✓	Verb	Ella siempre presume de sus logros.	She always boasts about her achievements.	Presumir de is commonly used in casual conversations to express pride in ones accomplishments.	Verb
Mimado	Spoiled	Bortskämd ✓	Adjective	El niño es muy mimado.	The boy is very spoiled.	In Spanish, mimado is often used to describe a child who receives excessive pampering or indulgence.	Adjective
Aguardar	To await	Invänta, vänta ✓	Verb	Voy a aguardar su respuesta.	I will await your response.	Aguardar is often used in formal contexts, making it suitable for written communication.	Verb
El olor	The smell/odor ✓	Lukten	Noun	El olor a café es muy agradable.	The smell of coffee is very pleasant.	El olor is commonly used to describe pleasant or unpleasant scents in everyday conversations.	Noun
De vez en cuando	Occasionally	Då och då ✓	Adverb	De vez en cuando voy al cine.	Occasionally, I go to the movies.	De vez en cuando is commonly used in Spanish to describe a frequency that is not regular, similar to how once in a while is used in English.	Adverb
Anillo de boda	The wedding ring	Vigselring ✓	Noun	El anillo de boda brilla con amor.	The wedding ring shines with love.	Fun fact: Anillo de boda is often exchanged during wedding ceremonies as a symbol of eternal unity.	Noun
Anillo de prometida	The engagement ring	Förlovningsring ✓	Noun	El anillo de prometida brilla con fuerza.	The engagement ring shines brightly.	In Spanish-speaking cultures, Anillo de prometida symbolizes love and commitment before marriage.	Noun
Los aretes	The earrings	Örhängena ✓	Noun	Los aretes son muy bonitos.	The earrings are very pretty.	Los aretes is commonly used in Latin American countries to refer to earrings, distinguishing them from other types of jewelry.	Noun
El brazalete	The bracelet	Armbandet ✓	Noun	El brazalete es muy bonito.	The bracelet is very beautiful.	El brazalete is commonly used to refer to decorative wrist ornaments in fashion.	Noun
El collar	The necklace	Halsbandet ✓	Noun	El collar es hermoso.	The necklace is beautiful.	El collar is commonly used in Spanish to refer to any type of necklace or collar for pets.	Noun
Un cinturón	The belt	Ett skärp ✓	Noun	Me compré un cinturón nuevo.	I bought a new belt.	Un cinturón is commonly used in fashion contexts in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
La cartera	The wallet	Plånboken ✓	Noun	La cartera es de color negro.	The wallet is black.	La cartera is commonly used in Spain to refer to a wallet or purse, while in some Latin American countries, it can also mean a portfolio or briefcase.	Noun
La bufanda	The scarf	Halsduken ✓	Noun	La bufanda es de lana.	The scarf is made of wool.	La bufanda is commonly used in Spanish-speaking countries, especially during the colder months for warmth and style.	Noun
Un chal	A shawl	En sjal ✓	Noun	Me compré un chal nuevo.	I bought a shawl.	In Spanish, un chal refers to a type of shawl that is often worn for warmth or fashion.	Noun
Los mitones	The mittens	Vantarna ✓	Noun	Los mitones son muy cálidos.	The mittens are very warm.	Los mitones are often used in colder climates to keep hands warm.	Noun
Un maletín	The briefcase	En portfölj ✓	Noun	Un maletín está sobre la mesa.	The briefcase is on the table.	Un maletín is often used to refer to a business or travel briefcase in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
El paragua	The umbrella	Paraplyet ✓	Noun	El paragua está en la mesa.	The umbrella is on the table.	In many Spanish-speaking countries, el paragua can also mean the person who solves problems, besides its literal meaning.	Noun
El sombrero	The hat	Hatten ✓	Noun	El sombrero es muy elegante.	The hat is very stylish.	El sombrero refers to hats in general, often symbolizing culture and tradition in Spain.	Noun
Hacer la compra	To shop	Gå och handla (mat) ✓	Verb	Hoy voy a hacer la compra	Today I am going to shop	Fun fact: Hacer la compra is commonly used in Spain to refer specifically to grocery shopping rather than shopping in general.	Verb
Hacer la cama	To make the bed	Bädda sängen ✓	Verb	Yo hago la cama por la mañana.	I make the bed in the morning.	Hacer la cama is often a daily chore that helps keep the bedroom tidy.	Verb
Fregar el suelo	To mop the floor	Moppa golvet ✓	Verb	Voy a fregar el suelo.	I am going to mop the floor.	Fregar el suelo is commonly used in daily chores to describe cleaning floors.	Verb
El césped	The grass	Gräset ✓	Noun	El césped es verde.	The grass is green.	El césped is often used in Spain to refer specifically to well-maintained lawns or turf.	Noun
Cortar el césped	To cut the grass	Klippa gräset ✓	Verb	Es hora de cortar el césped.	Its time to cut the grass.	Cortar el césped is a common household chore in Spanish-speaking countries, especially in spring and summer.	Verb
Poner en orden	So straighten up (cleaning) ✓	Att sätta i ordning	Verb	Voy a poner en orden mi habitación.	I am going to straighten up my room.	Poner en orden is commonly used when organizing spaces or tidying up.	Verb
Sacar la basura	To take out the trash	Slänga soporna ✓	Verb	Es importante sacar la basura todos los días.	It is important to take out the trash every day.	Fun fact: Sacar la basura is a common household chore often assigned to children in Spanish-speaking families.	Verb
La basura	The trash	Skräpet / soporna ✓	Noun	La basura está en la calle.	The trash is in the street.	La basura is commonly used in everyday Spanish conversation to refer to litter or refuse.	Noun
La vela	The candle	Ljuset (stearin) ✓	Noun	La vela está encendida.	The candle is lit.	In Spanish, La vela can also refer to a sailor in certain contexts.	Noun
Un bastón de caramelo	The candy cane	En polkagris ✓	Noun	Me gusta comer un bastón de caramelo en Navidad.	I like to eat a candy cane at Christmas.	Un bastón de caramelo is commonly enjoyed as a festive treat during the holiday season.	Noun
El árbol de navidad	The christmas tree	Julgranen ✓	Noun	El árbol de navidad brilla en la sala.	The Christmas tree shines in the living room.	El árbol de navidad is a central symbol of Christmas celebrations in many Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
Un hombre de pan de jengibre	The gingerbread man	En pepparkaksgubbe ✓	Noun	Un hombre de pan de jengibre se hizo famoso en los cuentos	The gingerbread man became famous in stories	Un hombre de pan de jengibre is often used in children’s literature and holiday themes.	Noun
Pan de jengibre	Gingerbread	Pepparkaka ✓	Noun	Me encanta el pan de jengibre en Navidad.	I love the gingerbread at Christmas.	Pan de jengibre is often used to make festive cookies during the holiday season.	Noun
El muérdago	The mistletoe	Misteln ✓	Noun	El muérdago se usa en Navidad.	The mistletoe is used at Christmas.	El muérdago is often associated with kissing under the mistletoe during holiday celebrations.	Noun
San nicolás, papá noel	Saint nicholas, santa claus	Jultomten ✓	Noun	San Nicolás, Papá Noel trae regalos en Navidad.	Saint Nicholas, Santa Claus brings gifts at Christmas.	San Nicolás, Papá Noel is celebrated as a gift-bringer in many cultures, symbolizing generosity.	Noun
El trineo	The sled	Släden ✓	Noun	El trineo va rápidamente por la nieve.	The sled is going quickly on the snow.	El trineo is often associated with winter sports and childrens activities in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
El hombre de nieve	The snowman	Snögubben ✓	Noun	El hombre de nieve es muy divertido.	The snowman is very fun.	El hombre de nieve is commonly associated with winter activities and holiday traditions, especially in drawings and storytelling.	Noun
La cadena de luces	The string of lights	Ljusslingan ✓	Noun	La cadena de luces ilumina el patio.	The string of lights brightens the patio.	La cadena de luces is often used in holiday decorations to create a festive atmosphere.	Noun
El cordero	The lamb	Lammet ✓	Noun	El cordero está en el campo.	The lamb is in the field.	El cordero is often associated with springtime in Spanish culture, symbolizing rebirth and renewal.	Noun
El turrón	The nougat	Spansk nougat ✓	Noun	El turrón es un dulce típico de España.	The nougat is a typical sweet from Spain.	El turrón is especially popular during Christmas celebrations in Spain.	Noun
El arroz con leche	The rice pudding	Risgrynsgröt (typ) ✓	Noun	Me gusta comer el arroz con leche en el desayuno.	I like to eat rice pudding for breakfast.	El arroz con leche is a popular dessert in many Spanish-speaking countries and is often enjoyed warm.	Noun
La sopa	The soup	Soppan ✓	Noun	La sopa está caliente.	The soup is hot.	La sopa is a common dish in many Spanish-speaking cultures, often enjoyed as a starter or main course.	Noun
La noche vieja	The old night	Nyårsafton ✓	Noun	La noche vieja es una celebración muy especial.	The Old Night is a very special celebration.	La noche vieja is celebrated in Spain and is associated with welcoming the New Year.	Noun
El día de año nuevo	The new years day	Nyårsdagen ✓	Noun	El día de año nuevo es un día festivo en muchos países.	The New Years Day is a public holiday in many countries.	El día de año nuevo is often celebrated with family gatherings and fireworks.	Noun
Cazar	To hunt	Att jaga (djur) ✓	Verb	Voy a cazar ciervos esta temporada.	I am going to hunt deer this season.	Cazar is often used in the context of hunting animals for sport or food in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Verb
El ajedrez	The chess	Schack ✓	Noun	Me gusta jugar al ajedrez.	I like to play chess.	El ajedrez is a popular game that has been played for centuries, enjoyed by millions around the world.	Noun
La jardinería	Gardening	Trädgårdsarbete ✓	Noun	Me gusta la jardinería en mi tiempo libre.	I enjoy gardening in my free time.	La jardinería is often seen as a relaxing hobby that connects people with nature.	Noun
Hacer la jardinería / trabajar en el jardín	To do gardening	Arbeta i trädgården ✓	Verb	Me gusta hacer la jardinería los fines de semana.	I like to do gardening on the weekends.	Hacer la jardinería is commonly used in Spain, while trabajar en el jardín is more generic and can refer to any gardening work.	Verb
Ir de excursión	To go hiking	Gå och vandra ✓	Verb	Me gusta ir de excursión los fines de semana.	I like to go hiking on weekends.	Ir de excursión is commonly used in Spain to refer to outdoor activities in nature.	Verb
Hacer el footing	To jog	Jogga ✓	Verb	Hoy voy a hacer el footing en el parque.	Today I am going to jog in the park.	Hacer el footing is commonly used in Spain, while in Latin America, people might simply say jogging.	Verb
El tenis	Tennis	Tennis ✓	Noun	El tenis es un deporte muy popular.	Tennis is a very popular sport.	El tenis is often associated with famous tournaments like Wimbledon.	Noun
El vóleibol	Volleyball	Voleybol ✓	Noun	Me gusta jugar al vóleibol.	I like to play volleyball.	El vóleibol is popular in many Latin American countries, often played in schools and on the beach.	Noun
El luchar (hacer)	The wrestling	Brottning ✓	Noun	El luchar es una forma de arte marcial.	The wrestling is a form of martial art.	El luchar is often associated with competitive sports and is derived from traditional fighting techniques.	Noun
El marido / el esposo	The husband ✓	Maken	Noun	El marido cocina la cena.	The husband cooks dinner.	El marido is widely used in Hispanic cultures as a formal way to refer to ones spouse.	Noun
La mujer / la esposa	The wife ✓	Frun	Noun	La mujer cocina la cena.	The wife is cooking dinner.	In Spanish, la mujer refers to the woman in a general sense, while la esposa specifically means the wife.	Noun
Salir con / citar	To date	Att dejta ✓	Verb	Quiero salir con ella.	I want to date her.	Salir con is commonly used in Spain, while citar can be more formal or romantic.	Verb
Hacerse cargo de algo	To take charge/responsibility for something ✓	Ta ansvar för något	Phrase	Es importante hacerse cargo de algo en el trabajo.	Its important to take charge of something at work.	Hacerse cargo de algo is often used in a professional context to emphasize accountability.	Phrase
Como pedro por su casa	To act like you own the place ✓	Att bete sig som om man äger platsen	Phrase	Él se mueve por la oficina como Pedro por su casa	He walks around the office like he owns the place	This phrase is often used to describe someone who is very comfortable in a specific environment.	Phrase
Arreglárselas por su cuenta	To deal with it oneself ✓	Att klara sig själv	Phrase	Ella tuvo que arreglárselas por su cuenta	She had to deal with it herself	The phrase is commonly used to express self-sufficiency in challenging situations.	Phrase
Echar en cara (algo a alguien)	To confront someone about something / to throw it in (his) face ✓	Att konfrontera någon om något	Phrase	No deberías echarme en cara mi pasado.	You shouldnt throw my past in my face.	Echar en cara is often used in emotional contexts, highlighting unresolved issues or grievances.	Phrase
Ser un caso perdido	To be a lost cause ✓	Att vara en förlorad orsak	Phrase	Ella cree que su hermano es un caso perdido.	She believes that her brother is a lost cause.	The phrase Ser un caso perdido is often used in Spanish to describe someone or something that seems hopeless or impossible to change.	Phrase
No tenerlas todas consigo	To be unsure about something ✓	Att vara osäker på något	Phrase	Ella no tiene las todas consigo sobre su decisión.	She is not sure about her decision.	No tenerlas todas consigo is often used to express doubt or uncertainty in personal situations.	Phrase
Quedarse al margen (de algo)	To keep out of something ✓	Hålla sig utanför något	Phrase	No quiero quedarme al margen de la discusión.	I dont want to keep out of the discussion.	Quedarse al margen (de algo) is often used to emphasize the importance of being involved in or aware of a conversation or situation.	Phrase
Tener al tanto (a alguien)	To keep someone posted ✓	Hålla någon informerad	Phrase	Voy a tener al tanto a mi amigo sobre los planes del viaje.	I will keep my friend posted about the travel plans.	The phrase Tener al tanto (a alguien) is commonly used in informal contexts to ensure someone is updated on current information.	Phrase
Toparse con alguien	To run into someone unexpectedly ✓	Att springa på någon	Phrase	Ayer me topé con alguien que no veía desde hace años.	Yesterday, I ran into someone I hadnt seen in years.	Toparse con alguien is commonly used in Spain to describe a pleasant surprise when meeting someone by chance.	Phrase
Dar crédito a algo/alguien	To give credit to someone ✓	Att ge erkännande till något/någon	Phrase	Es importante dar crédito a los profesores por su dedicación.	It is important to give credit to teachers for their dedication.	Fun fact: Dar crédito a algo/alguien emphasizes acknowledgment and appreciation in various contexts, including professional and personal.	Phrase
Estar enfrascado en algo	To be engulfed in something ✓	Att vara uppslukad av något	Phrase	Estaba enfrascado en su libro y no escuchó cuando lo llamaron.	He was engulfed in his book and didnt hear when they called him.	The phrase estar enfrascado en algo is often used to describe someone deeply focused or absorbed in an activity.	Phrase
Tomar parte	To take part ✓	Delta	Phrase	Voy a tomar parte en la carrera.	I am going to take part in the race.	Tomar parte is commonly used in Spanish to express participation in events or activities.	Phrase
Tener algo a mano	To have something on hand ✓	Att ha något till hands	Phrase	Siempre trato de tener algo a mano cuando cocino.	I always try to have something on hand when I cook.	The phrase Tener algo a mano is often used in cooking and preparations, emphasizing the importance of being prepared.	Phrase
Dar el pego	"To deceive (to seem to be something it&#x27;s not) ✓"	Att lura	Phrase	Ese truco realmente da el pego.	That trick really deceives.	Dar el pego is often used in colloquial Spanish to describe situations that are misleading or deceptive.	Phrase
Deja de cecear	Stop lisping ✓	Sluta sig	Phrase	Por favor, deja de cecear cuando hables.	Please stop lisping when you speak.	Deja de cecear is often used in Spain to humorously address someone who has a slight lisp.	Phrase
Tirar un palo	To give hints ✓	Att ge ledtrådar	Phrase	Ella siempre trata de tirar un palo cuando quiere que yo adivine su sorpresa.	She always tries to give hints when she wants me to guess her surprise.	Fun fact: Tirar un palo is often used in casual conversations to suggest a subtle clue or indication.	Phrase
Es mejor pedir perdon que pedir permiso	It is better to ask for forgiveness than permission ✓	Det är bättre att be om ursäkt än att be om tillstånd	Phrase	Es mejor pedir perdon que pedir permiso	It is better to ask for forgiveness than permission	This phrase often reflects a risk-taking mindset in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Phrase
Un guindo	Cherry tree	Ett körsbärsträd ✓	Noun	Un guindo está floreciendo en el jardín.	A cherry tree is blooming in the garden.	Un guindo is commonly used in Spain to refer specifically to a cherry tree, distinct from other types of fruit trees.	Noun
Agotarse	To wear out ✓	Att bli trött	Verb	Me estoy agotando después de tanto trabajo.	I am wearing myself out after so much work.	Agotarse can also imply a feeling of exhaustion or depletion, not just for physical items.	Verb
Reponer	To replenish/replace ✓	Att återuppfylla	Verb	Voy a reponer el agua en la botella.	I am going to replenish the water in the bottle.	Reponer is commonly used in contexts involving supplies or resources.	Verb
Contener	To contain ✓	Att innehålla	Verb	Este frasco puede contener agua.	This bottle can contain water.	Fun fact: Contener can also mean to restrain or hold back, adding depth to its usage.	Verb
Huir	To flee ✓	Att fly	Verb	El gato decidió huir cuando oyó el trueno.	The cat decided to flee when it heard the thunder.	Huir is often used in contexts involving escape or evasion, highlighting the urgency of leaving a dangerous situation.	Verb
El hilo	The thread	Tråden, garnet ✓	Noun	El hilo es muy resistente.	The thread is very strong.	El hilo can refer to both sewing thread and metaphorically to a storyline or connection in conversations.	Noun
Edificar (material o inmaterial)	To build	Bygga (fysiskt eller metaforiskt) ✓	Verb	Es importante edificar una comunidad solidaria.	It is important to build a supportive community.	The verb edificar can refer to both physical structures and personal or social development.	Verb
El catástrofe	The catastrophe	Katastrofen ✓	Noun	El catástrofe causó mucho daño.	The catastrophe caused a lot of damage.	El catástrofe is often used in discussions about natural disasters in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
Concluir (con)	To conclude, finish, end (with) ✓	Att avsluta	Verb	Vamos a concluir con la reunión.	We are going to conclude the meeting.	Concluir (con) is often used in formal contexts to indicate finishing something, like a discussion or event.	Verb
Intuir	To feel/suspect	Att ana, känna ✓	Verb	Yo intuí que algo iba mal.	I intuited that something was wrong.	Intuir is often used in a context of having an instinct or gut feeling about a situation.	Verb
Diariamente	Daily	Dagligen ✓	Adverb	Estudio español diariamente.	I study Spanish daily.	Diariamente is often used to emphasize routine activities in Spanish.	Adverb
El benjamín, la benjamina	The youngest	Den yngste (set yngsta barnet) / bebisen ✓	Noun	El benjamín es el más pequeño de la familia.	The youngest is the smallest in the family.	El benjamín, la benjamina is often used to refer to the youngest child in a family, highlighting their special status.	Noun
Palpar	Touch	Att känna (fysiskt) ✓	Verb	Yo puedo palpar la textura de la tela.	I can feel the texture of the fabric.	Palpar is often used in contexts where physical touch is involved, such as feeling objects or textures.	Verb
Palpable	Palpable	Påtaglig ✓	Adjective	La tensión en la sala era palpable.	The tension in the room was palpable.	Palpable is often used to describe feelings or atmospheres that can be easily perceived or sensed.	Adjective
Reflexionar	Reflect	Reflektera ✓	Verb	Es importante reflexionar sobre nuestras decisiones.	It is important to reflect on our decisions.	Reflexionar is often used in contexts of self-improvement or decision-making.	Verb
Ni siquiera	Not even	Inte ens ✓	Adverb	Ni siquiera tengo tiempo para descansar.	I dont even have time to rest.	Ni siquiera is often used to emphasize that something is more extreme than one might expect, often highlighting a lack of something.	Adverb
Una gota	The drop	En droppe ✓	Noun	Una gota cae del grifo.	A drop falls from the faucet.	Una gota is commonly used in everyday conversations, often in the context of water or rain.	Noun
Granizado	Slushy	Slaskig ✓	Adjective	El hielo en la bebida está granizado.	The ice in the drink is slushy.	Granizado can refer to both slushy drinks and crushed ice in Spanish-speaking regions.	Adjective
Sencillo	Simple	Enkel ✓	Adjective	Esta tarea es sencillo.	This task is simple.	Sencillo is often used in everyday conversations to describe tasks, objects, or concepts that are easy to understand or do.	Adjective
Rascar	To scratch	Klia / skrapa ✓	Verb	Voy a rascar la parte de atrás de mi cabeza.	I am going to scratch the back of my head.	Fun fact: Rascar is often used in informal contexts, especially when referring to relief from an itch.	Verb
El toque de queda	Curfew	Utegångsförbudet (i krig t.ex) ✓	Phrase	El toque de queda empieza a las diez de la noche.	The curfew starts at ten in the evening.	El toque de queda is often implemented during emergencies or conflict situations to maintain order.	Phrase
La madrugada	The dawn	Morgontimmarna, gryningen ✓	Noun	La madrugada es un momento muy tranquilo.	The dawn is a very peaceful time.	La madrugada refers to the early hours before sunrise, often associated with calmness and solitude.	Noun
El olmo	The elm	Almträdet (stort, lummigt) ✓	Noun	El olmo da sombra en el parque.	The elm provides shade in the park.	El olmo is often associated with strength and resilience in Spanish literature.	Noun
Sentir lástima de alguien	Feel pity for someone	Att tycka synd om någon ✓	Phrase	Yo siento lástima de alguien que está triste.	I feel pity for someone who is sad.	Sentir lástima de alguien is commonly used to express empathy in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Phrase
Por si (eso) fuera poco	Just in case that wasnt enough	Som om det inte vore nog,  ✓	Phrase	Ya había llegado tarde, y por si eso fuera poco, olvidé mis llaves.	I had already arrived late, and just in case that wasnt enough, I forgot my keys.	Por si (eso) fuera poco is often used to emphasize that an already bad situation has gotten worse.	Phrase
Oler a	To smell	Lukta av ✓	Verb	Esa flor huele a rosas.	That flower smells of roses.	The verb oler derives from Latin oleo, meaning to smell, and is often used when referring to scents or aromas.	Verb
La remesa	The shipment / remittance ✓	Den remissen	Noun	La remesa llegó a tiempo.	The shipment arrived on time.	In finance, la remesa often refers to money sent by someone to their home country, typically by migrants.	Noun
El truco	The trick, cheat, hack ✓	Tricket	Noun	El truco es muy ingenioso.	The trick is very clever.	El truco can refer to a clever strategy or technique in various contexts, including games and problem-solving.	Noun
El ágape	The banquet, the feast ✓	Den festma	Noun	El ágape fue un momento especial para todos los asistentes.	The banquet was a special moment for all the attendees.	A fun fact about El ágape is that it often refers to a communal meal in religious or social gatherings, emphasizing fellowship and sharing.	Noun
Opuesto a	Opposed to ✓	Motsatt till	Adjective	Ella está opuesta a esa idea.	She is opposed to that idea.	The phrase opuesto a is commonly used to express disagreement or contrast in opinions.	Adjective
La misma mierda	Same shit (whatever) ✓	Samma skit	Phrase	No importa lo que hagamos, siempre termina siendo la misma mierda.	No matter what we do, it always ends up being the same shit.	Fun fact: La misma mierda is often used to express frustration with recurring situations.	Phrase
Jamás	Never / ever ✓	Aldrig	Adverb	Jamás he visto una película tan emocionante.	I have never seen such an exciting movie.	Jamás is often used to emphasize a strong negation in Spanish.	Adverb
Jamás de los jamases	Never ever / never ever again ✓	Aldrig någonsin	Adverb	No volveré a hacerlo, jamás de los jamases.	I will never ever do it again.	Jamás de los jamases is often used for emphasizing a strong refusal or commitment not to repeat an action.	Adverb
Nunca jamás	Never again, never ever ✓	Aldrig mer	Adverb	Nunca jamás quiero volver a ese lugar.	I never want to go back to that place again.	Nunca jamás emphasizes a strong resolve, often conveying a deep emotional response.	Adverb
Por/para siempre jamás	For ever and ever / forever after ✓	För alltid	Conjunction/subjunction	Te amaré por siempre jamás.	I will love you forever and ever.	Por/para siempre jamás is often used in romantic contexts to emphasize eternal love.	Conjunction/subjunction
El patrón	The pattern	Mönstret ✓	Noun	El patrón es fácil de entender.	The pattern is easy to understand.	In some contexts, El patrón can refer to a boss or employer, highlighting its versatility in Spanish.	Noun
Desplazarse	To scroll ✓	Att scrolla	Verb	Es fácil desplazarse por la página.	It is easy to scroll through the page.	Fun fact: Desplazarse can also mean to move or travel, not just to scroll.	Verb
El guión	The (manu)script ✓	Manuskriptet	Noun	El guión es interesante.	The script is interesting.	El guión can refer to both a screenplay and a written outline in Spanish.	Noun
El chacho	The chunk/chub/portion ✓	Chunken	Noun	El chacho es muy grande.	The chunk is very big.	El chacho is often used in informal contexts in Spain to refer to a significant portion of food or material.	Noun
El bravucón	The bouncer ✓	Bouncern	Noun	El bravucón no deja entrar a nadie sin identificación.	The bouncer does not let anyone in without identification.	El bravucón is often used to describe someone who is tough or aggressive, especially in a protective role.	Noun
Lindo	Cute ✓	Söt	Adjective	El perro es lindo.	The dog is cute.	In many Latin American countries, lindo is frequently used to describe not just physical beauty but also personality charm.	Adjective
El carrusel	The carousel ✓	Karusellen	Noun	Los niños disfrutan del carrusel en la feria.	The children enjoy the carousel at the fair.	El carrusel is often a favorite attraction in amusement parks around the world.	Noun
La plancha	The plank/sheet ✓	Plankan	Noun	La plancha es de madera.	The plank is made of wood.	La plancha can refer to a surfboard or ironing board in different contexts.	Noun
La adicción	The addiction ✓	Beroendet	Noun	La adicción puede afectar la vida de una persona.	The addiction can affect a persons life.	La adicción is commonly used in discussions about substance abuse and behavioral issues in Spanish-speaking communities.	Noun
La cafeína	The caffeine ✓	Koffein	Noun	La cafeína me mantiene despierto por la noche.	The caffeine keeps me awake at night.	La cafeína is often found in coffee, tea, and energy drinks, making it a popular stimulant worldwide.	Noun
A menudo	Often ✓	Ofta	Adverb	A menudo voy al parque.	I often go to the park.	A menudo is commonly used in Spanish to express frequency and is often found in both spoken and written contexts.	Adverb
Como es	As is ✓	Som den är	Phrase	Tomo el martini de espresso, como es.	"I&#x27;ll have the espresso martini, as is."	Como es is often used to emphasize accepting something in its current state without changes.	Phrase
El cono	The cone ✓	Konen	Noun	El cono es un objeto tridimensional.	The cone is a three-dimensional object.	El cono is commonly used in mathematics and art to describe a smooth, curved shape.	Noun
Enseñar	To teach ✓	Att undervisa	Verb	Voy a enseñar matemáticas.	I am going to teach math.	Enseñar is commonly used in educational contexts and can refer to both formal and informal teaching.	Verb
Empujar	To push ✓	Att trycka	Verb	Voy a empujar la puerta.	I am going to push the door.	Empujar is commonly used in everyday situations, such as moving objects or encouraging someone to take action.	Verb
El jarrón	The vase ✓	Vasen	Noun	El jarrón es muy bonito.	The vase is very beautiful.	El jarrón is often used in artworks and literature to symbolize beauty and fragility.	Noun
El escaparate	The display window	Skyltfönstret ✓	Noun	El escaparate es muy colorido.	The display window is very colorful.	El escaparate is commonly used in retail to showcase products attractively.	Noun
Plazo de aviso	The notice period	Uppsängningstiden ✓	Noun	Es importante respetar el plazo de aviso.	It is important to respect the notice period.	Plazo de aviso is commonly used in employment contracts in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
En todos lados	Everywhere ✓	Överallt	Adverb	La música suena en todos lados.	The music plays everywhere.	En todos lados is commonly used to express the idea that something is present in many places or widely available.	Adverb
Aparentemente	Apparently (1) ✓	Tydligen	Adverb	Aparentemente, no vendrá a la fiesta.	Apparently, he will not come to the party.	Aparentemente is often used to express something that seems to be true based on available information, but may not necessarily be confirmed.	Adverb
Al parecer	Apparently (2) ✓	Tyvärr	Adverb	Al parecer, no viene a la fiesta.	Apparently, he is not coming to the party.	Al parecer is often used to indicate uncertainty or based on hearsay.	Adverb
Poner al corriente de	To get up to date on/catch up on ✓	Hålla informerad om	Phrase	Necesito poner al corriente de los últimos proyectos a mi jefe.	I need to get my boss up to date on the latest projects.	Poner al corriente de is often used in professional settings to ensure everyone has the same information.	Phrase
Siquiera	Even/not even ✓	Inte ens	Adverb	No tengo siquiera un euro.	I dont even have a euro.	Siquiera is often used to emphasize the absence of something in a negative context.	Adverb
La tapia	Wall/fence (out of stone/brick) ✓	Muren	Noun	La tapia es de piedra.	The wall is made of stone.	La tapia refers to a traditional type of wall often seen in rural Spain, symbolizing both property boundaries and cultural heritage.	Noun
El fusilado	The shot (not the beverage) ✓	Den skjutne	Noun	El fusilado fue recordado en la historia.	The shot was remembered in history.	El fusilado often refers to a victim of execution, highlighting the grave consequences of violence.	Noun
Rumorear	To be rumored that/to spread rumors ✓	Att rumorera	Verb	Se rumorea que vendrá una gran tormenta.	It is rumored that a big storm is coming.	Fun fact: Rumorear can be used in various contexts, from gossip to official announcements.	Verb
En pesar de (que)	In spite of ✓	Trots	Conjunction/subjunction	En pesar de que hacía frío, salimos a caminar.	In spite of it being cold, we went out for a walk.	The phrase en pesar de derives from Latin pati, meaning to suffer, highlighting the contrast between the difficulties faced and the action taken.	Conjunction/subjunction
Sea como fuere (toma nota del subjuntivo de futuro)	Whatever the case may be (note the future subjunctive)	Hur det än må vara / hur det än är med den saken ✓	Phrase	Sea como fuere, debemos seguir adelante con el proyecto.	Whatever the case may be, we must move forward with the project.	The phrase Sea como fuere is often used to indicate acceptance of a situation, regardless of uncertainties.	Phrase
Una ojeada	A look, a glance ✓	Blicken	Noun	Le di una ojeada a la película.	I took a glance at the movie.	Una ojeada is often used to describe a quick look at something without deep examination.	Noun
La cara, el rostro	The face, the face	Ansiktet ✓	Noun	La cara es hermosa.	The face is beautiful.	La cara, el rostro can both refer to the face, but el rostro is often used in more formal or literary contexts.	Noun
Ser una bala perdida	To be a loose cannon ✓	Att vara en lös kanon	Phrase	Juan es una bala perdida cuando se enoja.	Juan is a loose cannon when he gets angry.	The phrase Ser una bala perdida often describes someone unpredictable or reckless, particularly in situations where they might cause chaos.	Phrase
A propósito	Intentionally	Med mening ✓	Adjective	Dijo eso a propósito.	He said that intentionally.	The phrase a propósito is often used to indicate that an action was done with a specific intention or motive.	Adjective
Parpadear	To blink ✓	Att blinka	Verb	A veces parpadeo cuando tengo sueño.	Sometimes I blink when I am tired.	Parpadear is often used in both literal and figurative contexts in Spanish, such as expressing surprise.	Verb
La rompecabeza	The puzzle ✓	Pusslet	Noun	Me gusta resolver la rompecabeza.	I like to solve the puzzle.	La rompecabeza is often used in educational contexts to encourage critical thinking and problem-solving skills.	Noun
El hueso	The bone	Benet (som skelett) ✓	Noun	El hueso es muy fuerte.	The bone is very strong.	El hueso is often used in anatomy to refer to the structure that supports the body.	Noun
Aplastar	To crush	Krossa, mosa ✓	Verb	Voy a aplastar la lata.	I am going to crush the can.	Aplastar is commonly used to refer not only to physical crushing but also metaphorically, like overcoming challenges.	Verb
Atrapada	Trapped	Fast, fångat ✓	Adjective	La mariposa está atrapada en la red.	The butterfly is trapped in the net.	Atrapada can refer to being physically caught or to feeling emotionally stuck.	Adjective
Atrapar	To catch, trap ✓	Att fånga	Verb	Yo quiero atrapar la pelota.	I want to catch the ball.	Atrapar is commonly used in everyday language, especially in sports contexts.	Verb
La tensión en el ambiente era palpable.	The tension was palpable ✓	Spänningen var påtaglig	Phrase	La tensión en el ambiente era palpable.	The tension in the atmosphere was palpable.	The phrase is often used in dramatic contexts to describe situations that feel charged or intense.	Phrase
Cálido	Warm	Varm (t.ex vantar) ✓	Adjective	El clima es cálido en verano.	The weather is warm in summer.	Cálido can also describe a friendly or welcoming atmosphere in addition to temperature.	Adjective
La espalda	The back	Ryggen ✓	Noun	Me duele la espalda.	My back hurts.	La espalda is often used not only to refer to the physical back but also in idiomatic expressions, such as dar la espalda which means to turn ones back on someone.	Noun
La madera	The wood	The wood ✓	Noun	La madera es muy resistente.	The wood is very durable.	Fun fact: La madera is commonly used in craftsmanship and construction in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
La autocaravana	The motorhome	Husbilen ✓	Noun	La autocaravana es muy cómoda para viajar.	The motorhome is very comfortable for traveling.	La autocaravana is commonly used in Spain for recreational vehicles designed for camping and road trips.	Noun
Un chalé	House	Ett hus (ganska stort) med trädgård ✓	Noun	Un chalé tiene un jardín hermoso.	A house has a beautiful garden.	Un chalé is commonly used in Spain to refer to a large house with a garden, often in suburban areas.	Noun
Adosado	Connected / attached ✓	Ansluten	Adjective	El edificio adosado tiene un hermoso jardín.	The attached building has a beautiful garden.	In real estate, adosado typically refers to properties that share a wall with another unit, often seen in townhome developments.	Adjective
El adosado	The townhouse	Radhuset / radhusen ✓	Noun	El adosado está en una calle tranquila.	The townhouse is on a quiet street.	El adosado refers specifically to a type of terraced house commonly found in urban areas.	Noun
El dormitorio	The bedroom	Sovrummet ✓	Noun	El dormitorio es grande.	The bedroom is big.	In Spanish, El dormitorio commonly refers to a bedroom but can also mean a sleeping room or an area designated for rest.	Noun
El salón	The living room	Vardagsrummet ✓	Noun	El salón es muy cómodo.	The living room is very comfortable.	El salón is often used to refer to the main sitting area in Spanish homes, emphasizing relaxation and family gatherings.	Noun
El garaje	The garage	Garaget ✓	Noun	El garaje está lleno de herramientas.	The garage is full of tools.	El garaje is commonly used in Spain to refer to both a garage for cars and a storage space.	Noun
El pasillo	The hallway	Hallen / korridoren ✓	Noun	El pasillo está muy largo.	The hallway is very long.	El pasillo is often used to describe corridors in both homes and public buildings in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
El tendedero	The clothesline	Tvättlinan ✓	Noun	El tendedero está lleno de ropa.	The clothesline is full of clothes.	El tendedero is commonly used in Spanish-speaking households for drying laundry outdoors.	Noun
Arder	Burn	Att brinna ✓	Verb	El fuego empieza a arder.	The fire begins to burn.	Arder is often used in both literal and metaphorical contexts in Spanish, such as expressing passion or desire.	Verb
La pinza	The clothes peg	Klädnypan ✓	Noun	La pinza es útil para colgar la ropa.	The clothes peg is useful for hanging laundry.	A fun fact is that la pinza is commonly used in households for drying clothes in many Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
El felpudo	The doormat	Dörrmattan ✓	Noun	El felpudo está en la entrada de la casa.	The doormat is at the entrance of the house.	In Spain, its common to have decorative felpudos that welcome guests with fun phrases.	Noun
La escoba, el cepillo	The broom, the brush	Borsten, kvasten ✓	Noun	La escoba y el capillo son útiles para limpiar.	The broom and the brush are useful for cleaning.	Fun fact: La escoba, el capillo refers to traditional cleaning tools often used in Spanish homes.	Noun
La calefacción, el radiador	The heating, the radiator	Elementet ✓	Noun	La calefacción está funcionando y el radiador está caliente.	The heating is working and the radiator is hot.	La calefacción, el radiador are essential in keeping homes warm during the cold months.	Noun
El armario	The wardrobe	Garderob ✓	Noun	El armario está lleno de ropa.	The wardrobe is full of clothes.	El armario is commonly used in Spanish to refer not just to wardrobes but also to general storage cabinets.	Noun
La almohada	The pillow	Kudden ✓	Noun	La almohada es muy cómoda.	The pillow is very comfortable.	Fun fact: La almohada is often used in phrases about getting a good nights sleep.	Noun
Consultar(lo) con la almohada	Consult it with the pillow	Sova på saken ✓	Noun	Tengo una decisión importante que tomar, así que voy a consultar con la almohada.	I have an important decision to make, so I will consult it with the pillow.	The expression consultar con la almohada implies taking time to think about something overnight before making a decision.	Noun
La percha	The hanger	Stången man har galgar på ✓	Noun	La percha está rota.	The hanger is broken.	La percha is commonly used in homes and stores for organizing clothes.	Noun
La estantería 	The shelf	Hyllan, bokhyllan ✓	Noun	La estantería está llena de libros.	The shelf is full of books.	La estantería is commonly used in Spanish to refer to a bookshelf in homes and libraries.	Noun
El sofá	The sofa	Soffan ✓	Noun	El sofá es muy cómodo.	The sofa is very comfortable.	In many Spanish-speaking cultures, el sofá is a central piece of furniture where families gather and socialize.	Noun
El sillón	The armchair	Fåtöljen ✓	Noun	El sillón es muy cómodo.	The armchair is very comfortable.	El sillón is a common term in Spanish-speaking countries for a comfortable armchair often used in living rooms.	Noun
La chimenea	The chimney	Eldstaden ✓	Noun	La chimenea está humeando.	The chimney is smoking.	Fun fact: La chimenea is often associated with warmth and gathering places in homes.	Noun
El cojín	The cushion	Soffkudden ✓	Noun	El cojín es muy cómodo.	The cushion is very comfortable.	El cojín is often used in Spanish to refer not only to cushions but also to bolster comfort in home decor.	Noun
La persiana	The roller blind	Persienen ✓	Noun	La persiana está subida.	The roller blind is up.	La persiana is commonly used in Spanish homes to refer to the window covering that blocks light.	Noun
El sofá-cama	The sofa bed	Bäddsoffan ✓	Noun	El sofá-cama es muy cómodo.	The sofa bed is very comfortable.	Fun fact: El sofá-cama is often used in small apartments to save space.	Noun
La cortina	The curtain	Gardinen ✓	Noun	La cortina es de color azul.	The curtain is blue.	La cortina is commonly used in Spanish to refer to both fabric curtains and drapes in homes.	Noun
El extractor	The extractor	Fläkten (över spisen) ✓	Noun	El extractor está encendido.	The extractor is on.	El extractor is commonly used in kitchens to refer to the range hood that removes smoke and odors.	Noun
El tostador	The toaster	Brödrost ✓	Noun	El tostador está en la cocina.	The toaster is in the kitchen.	El tostador is commonly used in Spanish-speaking homes as an essential kitchen appliance for making toast.	Noun
La tabla de cortar	The cutting board	Skärbrädan ✓	Noun	La tabla de cortar es muy útil en la cocina.	The cutting board is very useful in the kitchen.	La tabla de cortar is essential for food preparation and helps prevent damage to countertops.	Noun
El jabón	The soap	Tvålen ✓	Noun	El jabón es importante para la higiene.	The soap is important for hygiene.	El jabón has been used since ancient times for cleaning and personal care.	Noun
El rollo de papel higiénico	The roll of toilet paper	Toalettpappret ✓	Noun	El rollo de papel higiénico está en el baño.	The roll of toilet paper is in the bathroom.	Fun fact: El rollo de papel higiénico is essential in most households for personal hygiene.	Noun
La olla	The pot	Kastrullen ✓	Noun	La olla está en la mesa.	The pot is on the table.	La olla is commonly used in cooking, referring to a pot used for boiling or simmering food.	Noun
El hervidor	The kettle	Vattenkokaren ✓	Noun	El hervidor calienta el agua rápidamente.	The kettle heats water quickly.	El hervidor is commonly used in Spanish-speaking countries for making tea or instant coffee.	Noun
El tobillo	The ankle	Fotleden ✓	Noun	El tobillo duele después de correr.	The ankle hurts after running.	El tobillo is commonly used in discussions about sports injuries and recovery.	Noun
Zarza, zarzamora	Blackberry	Björnbär ✓	Noun	Me gusta comer zarzamoras en el desayuno.	I like to eat blackberries for breakfast.	Zarza refers to the bramble bush, while zarzamora specifically means the blackberry fruit.	Noun
El valpurgis	The walpurgis	Valborg ✓	Noun	El valpurgis se celebra cada 30 de abril.	The Walpurgis is celebrated every April 30th.	El valpurgis marks the arrival of spring in many European traditions.	Noun
La parada (del autobus)	The bus stop	(buss) hållplatsen ✓	Noun	La parada del autobús está cerca de mi casa.	The bus stop is near my house.	La parada del autobús is commonly used in Spanish-speaking countries to refer to the designated location where buses pick up and drop off passengers.	Noun
Agacharse	To bend down	Böja sig ned ✓	Verb	Él tiene que agacharse para recoger la pelota.	He has to bend down to pick up the ball.	Agacharse is often used in everyday contexts, like picking something up or avoiding an obstacle.	Verb
No agaches la cabeza	Dont hang your head	Häng inte med huvudet ✓	Phrase	No agaches la cabeza en los momentos difíciles.	Dont hang your head in difficult times.	No agaches la cabeza is often used to encourage someone to stay strong and maintain their dignity.	Phrase
El cazador	The hunter	Jägaren ✓	Noun	El cazador va al bosque.	The hunter goes to the forest.	El cazador can refer to both a profession and a character in stories, often symbolizing adventure and survival.	Noun
La llama	The llama	Llaman / flamman ✓	Noun	La llama corre rápido.	The llama runs fast.	La llama is commonly associated with the Andes and is known for its strong pack-carrying abilities.	Noun
Una casa en llamas	A house in flames ✓	Ett hus i lågor	Phrase	Hoy vi una casa en llamas cerca del parque.	Today I saw a house in flames near the park.	The phrase Una casa en llamas is often used metaphorically to describe a situation of chaos or urgency.	Phrase
La moneda	The coin	Myntet ✓	Noun	La moneda brilla bajo la luz.	The coin shines under the light.	La moneda is often used in economic discussions to refer to currency.	Noun
El orgullo	The pride	Stolthet ✓	Noun	El orgullo es importante en la vida.	The pride is important in life.	El orgullo is often used to express both self-respect and group identity in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Noun
La entrevista	The interview	Intervjun ✓	Noun	La entrevista fue muy interesante.	The interview was very interesting.	Fun fact: La entrevista is commonly used in contexts involving media, job applications, and academic research.	Noun
El equipaje	The baggage	Baggaget ✓	Noun	El equipaje es muy pesado.	The baggage is very heavy.	El equipaje refers to luggage or bags used while traveling.	Noun
Despegar	Remove, take off / take off (plane) ✓	Att ta bort	Verb	Voy a despegar la etiqueta de la botella.	I am going to remove the label from the bottle.	Despegar can also mean to take off in aviation contexts, as in an airplane leaving the ground.	Verb
La despegue	The take off / the start ✓	Avfarten	Noun	La despegue es emocionante.	The take off is exciting.	La despegue is often used in aviation contexts to describe the moment an aircraft leaves the ground.	Noun
De ninguna manera	There is no chance ✓	Det finns ingen chans	Phrase	De ninguna manera iré a esa fiesta.	There is no chance I will go to that party.	De ninguna manera is often used for strong refusals or disagreements in Spanish conversations.	Phrase
La liebre	The hare	Haren ✓	Noun	La liebre corre rápidamente.	The hare runs quickly.	La liebre is often used in fables and can symbolize swiftness and agility.	Noun
La especia	The spice	Kryddan ✓	Noun	La especia da sabor a la comida.	The spice adds flavor to the food.	Fun fact: La especia is often used in cooking to enhance dishes.	Noun
El hoyo	The hole	Hålet, gropen / graven ✓	Noun	El hoyo está muy profundo.	The hole is very deep.	El hoyo is often used in literature and film to symbolize a difficult situation or predicament.	Noun
Cavar su propio hoyo, cavar la propia tumba (mer seriös)	Digging your own hole, digging your own grave (more serious)	Att gräva sin egen grav ✓	Phrase	Cuando tomas decisiones irresponsables, estás cavando tu propio hoyo.	When you make irresponsible decisions, you are digging your own hole.	This phrase is often used to describe situations where someones actions lead to their own downfall.	Phrase
El agujero	The hole	Öppning, spricka, hål ✓	Noun	El agujero es grande.	The hole is big.	El agujero can refer to various types of openings or gaps in both everyday and technical contexts.	Noun
El hoyo negro / el agujero negro	The black hole	Det svarta hålet ✓	Noun	El agujero negro es un misterio del universo.	The black hole is a mystery of the universe.	Fun fact: El hoyo negro / el agujero negro is commonly used in scientific contexts to discuss gravitational phenomena.	Noun
Cavar	To dig	Att gräva ✓	Verb	Yo quiero cavar un hoyo en el jardín.	I want to dig a hole in the garden.	Cavar is often used in agricultural contexts, referring to the act of digging in soil.	Verb
El rechazo	The return, the rejaction, the refusal ✓	Avvisning	Noun	El rechazo fue inesperado.	The rejection was unexpected.	El rechazo can refer to both emotional and formal contexts in Spanish.	Noun
El eje	The core/main idea/point (axis as well) ✓	Axeln	Noun	El eje de la conversación es la confianza.	The axis of the conversation is trust.	Fun fact: El eje can refer to a central theme in discussions or studies, emphasizing its importance.	Noun
La barrera	The barrier, obstacle ✓	Den barriären	Noun	La barrera es un obstáculo en la vida.	The barrier is an obstacle in life.	La barrera can refer to both physical and metaphorical obstacles.	Noun
Diseñar	To design	Att designa ✓	Verb	Voy a diseñar un nuevo logo.	I am going to design a new logo.	Diseñar is commonly used in various professional fields such as graphic design and architecture.	Verb
El trueno	The thunder	Åskan ✓	Noun	Me asusté cuando escuché el trueno.	I got scared when I heard the thunder.	El trueno refers specifically to the sound produced by lightning, commonly associated with storms.	Noun
El reto, el desafío	The challenge ✓	Utmaningen	Noun	El reto, el desafío es motivador.	The challenge is motivating.	El reto, el desafío can be used to signify any task that requires effort and determination.	Noun
Retar, desafiar (a alguien)	To challenge (someone) ✓	Att utmana (någon)	Verb	Voy a retar a mi hermano a una carrera.	I am going to challenge my brother to a race.	The verb retar is often used in competitive contexts, such as sports or games, to evoke a sense of rivalry.	Verb
Cagarse en los muertos de alguien	They can go f- themselves ✓	De kan gå åt helvete	Phrase	No me hables de esa manera, que me cago en tus muertos.	Dont talk to me that way, go f- yourself.	This phrase is a strong expression of anger and contempt in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Phrase
Súbito	Sudden, unexpected ✓	Plötslig	Adjective	La lluvia comenzó de manera súbita.	The rain started suddenly.	Súbito is often used to describe unexpected changes or events.	Adjective
Recuperar	Recover	Återta ✓	Verb	Voy a recuperar mi libro.	I am going to recover my book.	Recuperar can be used in contexts of recovering not just physical items but also health or lost time.	Verb
Disminuir	Reduce, decrease, cut/lower ✓	Minska	Verb	Es importante disminuir el consumo de plástico.	It is important to reduce plastic consumption.	Fun fact: Disminuir can be used in both physical and abstract contexts, such as decreasing noise or reducing expenses.	Verb
La disonancia	Dissonance	Dissonans ✓	Noun	La disonancia entre las notas crea un efecto extraño.	The dissonance between the notes creates a strange effect.	La disonancia is often used in music theory to describe a lack of harmony.	Noun
El recurso	The resource	Resursen / överklagan (juridik) ✓	Noun	El recurso fue aprobado por el tribunal.	The resource was approved by the court.	Fun fact: El recurso can refer to both legal appeals and general resources in Spanish contexts.	Noun
Implementar	To implement	Implementera / introducera ✓	Verb	Vamos a implementar un nuevo sistema.	We are going to implement a new system.	Implementar is often used in business contexts to describe the introduction of policies or systems.	Verb
Realista	Realist	Realistiskt ✓	Adjective	El enfoque de la película es muy realista.	The movies approach is very realistic.	Realista can describe not just art, but also perspectives in life.	Adjective
El/la realista	The realist / the royalist	Realist / royalist ✓	Noun	El realista observa la situación con atención.	The realist observes the situation carefully.	El/la realista can refer to both a person who adheres to realism in art or philosophy and a royalist in historical contexts.	Noun
¡Y colorín colorado, este cuento se ha acabado!	And the story is finished!	Och snipp snapp snut så var sagan slut ✓	Phrase	Después de muchas aventuras, ¡y colorín colorado, este cuento se ha acabado!	After many adventures, and the story is finished!	This phrase is commonly used at the end of childrens stories in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Phrase
El tamaño	Size	Storlek ✓	Noun	El medio tamaño	The medium size	Tamaño means size.	Noun
El jubilado, la jubilada (la pensionista)	The retiree (male), the retiree (female) (the pensioner)	Pensionären ✓	Noun	El jubilado disfruta de sus vacaciones.	The retiree is enjoying his vacation.	In Spain, terms like el jubilado and la jubilada are commonly used to refer to retirees, reflecting the importance of leisure in later life.	Noun
¡Jesús!	Jesus	Prosit! ✓	Interjection	“¡Jesús! ¡Qué sorpresa verte aquí!”	“Jesus! What a surprise to see you here!”	The phrase ¡jesús! is often exclaimed to express surprise or disbelief in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Interjection
La meta	The goal	Målet ✓	Noun	La meta es alcanzar el éxito.	The goal is to achieve success.	In Spanish, la meta often refers not only to an objective but also to a finish line in races.	Noun
Constituir	To constitute	Utgöra, utgöras av ✓	Verb	La familia constituye la base de la sociedad.	The family constitutes the foundation of society.	Fun fact: Constituir can also mean to form or to set up in various contexts.	Verb
Vamos bien	"We&#x27;re good ✓"	Vi mår bra	Phrase	Estamos trabajando en equipo y vamos bien	We are working together and were good	The phrase Vamos bien is often used to express progress or satisfaction in various situations.	Phrase
La cerveza de barril	The beer on tap/barrel ✓	Ölen på fat	Phrase	Me gusta pedir la cerveza de barril en el bar.	I like to order the beer on tap at the bar.	In many Spanish-speaking countries, ordering beer on tap is quite popular for its freshness.	Phrase
Te juro	I swear to you ✓	Jag svär till dig	Phrase	Te juro que siempre estaré contigo.	I swear to you that I will always be with you.	Te juro is often used to express sincerity and commitment in conversations.	Phrase
En corto	In short ✓	Kort sagt	Phrase	En corto, necesitamos concluir la reunión.	In short, we need to conclude the meeting.	En corto is commonly used in conversations to summarize or provide a brief overview.	Phrase
Fingir que	Pretend that ✓	Att låtsas att	Verb	Ella finge que está enferma.	She pretends that she is sick.	Fingir que is often used in everyday conversation when discussing stories or emotions.	Verb
Renunciar	To give up ✓	Att ge upp	Verb	Decidí renunciar a mi trabajo.	I decided to give up my job.	Renunciar is often used in a professional context, indicating leaving a position or job voluntarily.	Verb
Me das igual	"I don&#x27;t care about you ✓"	Jag bryr mig inte om dig	Phrase	No me importa lo que pienses, me das igual.	I dont care what you think, I dont care about you.	Me das igual is often used casually among friends but can come off as rude in formal settings.	Phrase
No puedo ni conmigo mismo	"I can&#x27;t even handle myself ✓"	Jag kan inte ens hantera mig själv	Phrase	A veces siento que no puedo ni conmigo mismo.	Sometimes I feel like I cant even handle myself.	No puedo ni conmigo mismo is often used to express overwhelming feelings of frustration or lack of control.	Phrase
El veneno	The poison ✓	Giftet	Noun	El veneno es peligroso.	The poison is dangerous.	El veneno is often used in literature to symbolize betrayal or danger.	Noun
Ya no soy yo	"I&#x27;m not myself anymore ✓"	Jag är inte mig själv längre	Phrase	Siento que ya no soy yo	I feel like Im not myself anymore	The phrase Ya no soy yo is often used to express feelings of loss or change in ones identity.	Phrase
Vago	Lazy ✓	Lat	Adjective	Es un día vago para quedarse en casa.	Its a lazy day to stay at home.	In Spanish, vago can describe not just laziness but also someone who avoids work or responsibility.	Adjective
Preferiblemente	Preferably ✓	Föredragsvis	Adverb	Prefiero comer frutas, preferiblemente frescas.	I prefer to eat fruits, preferably fresh.	Preferiblemente is often used to indicate a preference towards something more desirable or suitable.	Adverb
La avellana	The hazelnut ✓	Hasselnöt	Noun	La avellana es un fruto seco delicioso.	The hazelnut is a delicious nut.	La avellana is often used in desserts and pastries in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Noun
Desigual	Uneven ✓	Ojämn	Adjective	La superficie de la mesa es desigual.	The surface of the table is uneven.	Desigual is often used in math and architecture to describe irregular shapes or surfaces.	Adjective
El consuelo	The consultation ✓	Tröst	Noun	El consuelo es importante en tiempos difíciles.	The consolation is important in difficult times.	El consuelo often refers to comfort or solace in times of grief.	Noun
Atento	Attentive	Uppmärksam ✓	Adjective	El maestro siempre está atento a los estudiantes.	The teacher is always attentive to the students.	Atento is often used to describe someone who is observant or mindful in various contexts.	Adjective
Particular	Particular	Speciell, udda, ovanlig / privat ✓	Adjective	Tengo un interés particular en la música.	I have a particular interest in music.	The adjective particular can describe both something specific and something unusual depending on the context.	Adjective
Propiedad particular, propiedad privada	Private property, private ownership	Privat egendom ✓	Phrase	La propiedad particular, propiedad privada es fundamental en una economía de mercado.	Private property, private ownership is fundamental in a market economy.	In many countries, the concept of propiedad particular, propiedad privada is protected by law as essential for individual rights.	Phrase
Particularmente	Particularly	Särskilt, personligen ✓	Adverb	Me gusta el chocolate, particularmente el negro.	I like chocolate, particularly dark chocolate.	Particularmente is commonly used to emphasize a specific preference or detail.	Adverb
Incontables	Countless	Oräkneliga ✓	Adjective	Hay incontables estrellas en el cielo.	There are countless stars in the sky.	The word incontables is often used to emphasize a large, uncountable quantity, common in Spanish literature and poetry.	Adjective
Perturbar	Trouble, disturb, disrupt ✓	Att störa	Verb	No quiero perturbar tu paz.	I dont want to disturb your peace.	The verb perturbar is often used in formal contexts, such as in legal or academic discussions.	Verb
Perturbador	Disturbing, unsettling, disruptive ✓	Störande	Adjective	La película tenía un mensaje perturbador.	The movie had a disturbing message.	Perturbador is often used to describe art or media that challenges the viewers comfort.	Adjective
Inquieto	Restless	Rastlös, aktiv ✓	Adjective	El niño está inquieto en clase.	The boy is restless in class.	Inquieto can describe both physical restlessness and mental unease in Spanish.	Adjective
Atracción (de/a una persona)	Attraction (of/to a person)	Attraktion (till/av en person) ✓	Noun	La atracción entre ellos era innegable.	The attraction between them was undeniable.	The noun atracción is often used to describe both romantic and physical allure in relationships.	Noun
La bandera	The flag	Flaggan ✓	Noun	La bandera ondea en el viento.	The flag waves in the wind.	La bandera refers to a national symbol and is often displayed during celebrations.	Noun
La onda	The wave	Vågen (som fysik) ✓	Noun	La onda se propaga a través del agua.	The wave propagates through the water.	La onda is often used in scientific contexts, especially in physics to describe waves.	Noun
Ondear	Flutter, wave, flag ✓	Att vaja	Verb	La bandera comienza a ondear con el viento.	The flag starts to wave with the wind.	Ondear is commonly used in the context of flags or banners moving in the air.	Verb
El asta (feminino)	The flagpole	Hornet (djur) / flaggstången, masten ✓	Noun	El asta está decorada con banderas.	The flagpole is decorated with flags.	In Spanish, el asta means the flagpole, and it is feminine but uses the masculine article el due to the word starting with a stressed a sound.	Noun
Bandera a media asta	Half-mast flag	Flagga i halvstång ✓	Phrase	Hoy la bandera a media asta se izó en señal de duelo.	Today the half-mast flag was raised as a sign of mourning.	Bandera a media asta is often used during times of national loss or mourning.	Phrase
(estar) hasta la bandera	Full	Att vara helt full ✓	Phrase	El restaurante estaba hasta la bandera a la hora de la cena.	The restaurant was completely full at dinner time.	The phrase estar hasta la bandera is often used in Spain to describe a place that is crowded or fully occupied.	Phrase
Padecer (algo)	To suffer (from something)	Att lida (av något) ✓	Verb	Ella padece de migrañas.	She suffers from migraines.	Padecer is often used in medical contexts to describe enduring illnesses or conditions.	Verb
El ejército	The army	Armén ✓	Noun	El ejército está preparado para defender el país.	The army is prepared to defend the country.	Fun fact: El ejército is often associated with national pride and military history in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
Conceder	To concede	Belivja / ge ✓	Verb	Voy a conceder tu solicitud.	I am going to concede your request.	Conceder is often used in contexts of granting permission or acknowledging a point in a debate.	Verb
El/la inversor/a	The investor	Investeraren ✓	Noun	El inversor busca oportunidades en el mercado.	The investor is looking for opportunities in the market.	El/la inversor/a is used to represent a gender-neutral term for investors in Spanish.	Noun
Próspero	Prosperous	Framgångsrik, välmående ✓	Adjective	El negocio ha sido muy próspero este año.	The business has been very prosperous this year.	Próspero is often used to describe successful businesses and individuals.	Adjective
El auge	The peak, height / the rise, boom ✓	Toppen	Noun	El auge de la tecnología ha cambiado nuestras vidas.	The rise of technology has changed our lives.	El auge is often used to refer to periods of significant growth or success, especially in economics.	Noun
La huelga	The strike	Strejken ✓	Noun	La huelga fue pacífica.	The strike was peaceful.	La huelga is commonly used in labor movements in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
El huelgo	The gap	Andetaget / utrymmet ✓	Noun	El huelgo permite que el aire circule mejor.	The gap allows the air to circulate better.	El huelgo is often used in contexts related to physical spaces or figures of speech about openness.	Noun
Holgar	Be unnecessary, &quot;needless to say,&quot; &quot;it goes without saying,&quot; ✓	Att vara onödig	Verb	Holga que este evento es importante.	It goes without saying that this event is important.	Holgar is often used to emphasize that something is so obvious it doesnt need to be stated.	Verb
Caída en picado	Free fall	Fritt fall, drastisk nedgång ✓	Phrase	La economía ha tenido una caída en picado este año.	The economy has experienced a free fall this year.	Caída en picado is often used to describe sudden and dramatic declines, especially in finance or popularity.	Phrase
El desplome	The collapse	Kollapsen ✓	Noun	El desplome de la construcción fue inesperado.	The collapse of the building was unexpected.	El desplome is often used in contexts referring to structural failures or economic downturns.	Noun
Desplomar(se)	To collapse	Kollapsa (reflexivt om det är man själv som kollapsar) ✓	Verb	Me empezó a sentir mal y me desplomé.	I started to feel ill and collapsed.	In Spanish, desplomarse can be used to describe a sudden physical or emotional collapse.	Verb
Espinoso (que tiene espinas)	Prickly, thorny, bony (fish) / thorny, delicate (figuratively) ✓	Taggig	Adjective	La planta es espinosa.	The plant is prickly.	The word espinoso can describe both physical objects like plants and figurative concepts that are delicate or tricky.	Adjective
El reparto	Distribution	Fördelningen ✓	Noun	El reparto de las tareas es esencial para un buen trabajo en equipo.	The distribution of tasks is essential for good teamwork.	Fun fact: El reparto can refer to both the distribution of tasks and the distribution of roles in a play or film.	Noun
El empadronamiento	Registration	Folkbokföringen ✓	Noun	El empadronamiento es un proceso importante en España.	The registration is an important process in Spain.	El empadronamiento is essential for accessing public services in Spain.	Noun
Los empadronados	The registered residents	De folkbokförda ✓	Noun	Los empadronados tienen derechos en la comunidad.	The registered residents have rights in the community.	Los empadronados refers to those officially registered in a municipality, often used in contexts related to local governance and services.	Noun
La devolución	The return, refund ✓	Återbetalningen	Noun	La devolución fue exitosa.	The return was successful.	La devolución is commonly used in customer service contexts in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
El alambre de concertina, de espino	Barbed wire	Taggtråd ✓	Noun	El alambre de concertina, de espino se utiliza para proteger las propiedades.	The barbed wire is used to protect properties.	Fun fact: El alambre de concertina, de espino is often used in security fencing.	Noun
El alambre	The wire	Kabeln, tråden, ledningen ✓	Noun	El alambre es muy fino.	The wire is very thin.	El alambre is commonly used in various contexts, such as construction and crafting, referring to any type of wire.	Noun
El consenso	The consensus	Consensus, överenskommelse ✓	Noun	El consenso es importante en la toma de decisiones.	The consensus is important in decision-making.	Fun fact: El consenso is often used in discussions to emphasize agreement among different parties.	Noun
La longitud	Length	Längden / longituden ✓	Noun	La longitud del río es impresionante.	The length of the river is impressive.	Fun fact: La longitud is often used in scientific contexts, such as geography and physics.	Noun
Hacer trampa	To cheat	Fuska (i skolan) ✓	Verb	El estudiante decidió hacer trampa en el examen.	The student decided to cheat on the exam.	Fun fact: Hacer trampa is commonly used in academic contexts, especially among students.	Verb
Reanudar	To resume	Återuppta ✓	Verb	Vamos a reanudar la reunión.	We are going to resume the meeting.	Reanudar is often used in formal contexts like meetings and classes.	Verb
El éxodo	The exodus	Massemigrering ✓	Noun	El éxodo de los refugiados fue un evento significativo.	The exodus of refugees was a significant event.	El éxodo is often used in literature to describe mass migrations or significant movements of people.	Noun
Indisoluble	Indissoluble	Ölösbara (kemi) / odelbara, bindande (rättsligt) ✓	Adjective	La relación entre ellos es indisoluble.	The relationship between them is indissoluble.	Indisoluble often describes bonds or relationships that cannot be broken, making it popular in both legal and scientific contexts.	Adjective
El estatuto	The statute	Stadgan, regelverket ✓	Noun	El estatuto es importante para la organización.	The statute is important for the organization.	In legal contexts, El estatuto often refers to a formal set of laws or regulations governing an organization or institution.	Noun
El repunte, la subida, el crecimiento	The rebound, the rise, the growth	Ökning ✓	Noun	El repunte, la subida, el crecimiento son señales positivas en la economía.	The rebound, the rise, the growth are positive signs in the economy.	El repunte, la subida, el crecimiento can be used interchangeably in economic contexts to highlight upward trends.	Noun
Arraigado	Deeply rooted	(djupt) rotat, starkt etablicerad / fast (negativt) ✓	Adjective	El racismo está arraigado en la sociedad.	Racism is deeply rooted in society.	Arraigado can be used to describe not just plants, but also ideas and attitudes that are firmly established.	Adjective
Arraigar	To root	Slå rot (växt eller metaforiskt) ✓	Verb	Las plantas tienden a arraigar en suelos fértiles.	Plants tend to root in fertile soils.	The verb arraigar is often used both literally for plants and metaphorically for establishing deep connections.	Verb
Llevar a cabo	Carry out/through / accomplish / perform ✓	Genomföra	Phrase	Voy a llevar a cabo el proyecto mañana.	I am going to carry out the project tomorrow.	Llevar a cabo is commonly used in professional contexts to indicate the execution of tasks or plans.	Phrase
Cicatrizar	To heal	Att läka (bokstavligen eller figurativt) ✓	Verb	Las heridas cicatrizan con el tiempo.	Wounds heal over time.	Cicatrizar can refer to both physical wounds and emotional healing in Spanish.	Verb
El/la embajador/a	The ambassador	Ambassadör, diplomat ✓	Noun	El embajador da un discurso.	The ambassador gives a speech.	El/la embajador/a can refer to both male and female ambassadors, highlighting gender inclusivity in titles.	Noun
El acné	The acne	Aknen ✓	Noun	El acné puede afectar a personas de todas las edades.	The acne can affect people of all ages.	Fun fact: El acné is commonly referred to in both medical and everyday contexts in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
El cuervo	The raven	Korpen ✓	Noun	El cuervo vuela alto.	The raven flies high.	El cuervo is a common figure in Spanish literature and folklore, often symbolizing mystery and intelligence.	Noun
La etiqueta	The label	Etiketten, märket ✓	Noun	La etiqueta está en la parte trasera del producto.	The label is on the back of the product.	La etiqueta refers to both a physical label and the concept of etiquette in Spanish culture.	Noun
Pesado	Heavy	Tung ✓	Adjective	El libro es pesado.	The book is heavy.	In Spanish, pesado can describe not only weight but also someone who is annoying or tiresome.	Adjective
¡No me jodas!	"Don&#x27;t fuck with me! ✓"	Sluta jävlas med mig!	Interjection	No me digas que llegaste tarde, ¡no me jodas!	Dont tell me you arrived late, dont fuck with me!	¡no me jodas! is often used among friends to express disbelief or frustration in a casual manner.	Interjection
¡Cállate la jeta!	Shut your mouth	Håll käften! (igen) ✓	Phrase	¡Cállate la jeta! No me interrumpas.	Shut your mouth! Dont interrupt me.	The phrase ¡cállate la jeta! is a colloquial and informal way to tell someone to be quiet in Spain.	Phrase
Me importa un culo	"I don&#x27;t give a fuck ✓"	Jag bryr mig inte ett skit	Phrase	No me importa un culo lo que digan de mí.	I dont give a fuck what they say about me.	Me importa un culo is often used colloquially to express indifference or disregard for someones opinion.	Phrase
¡Come mierda!	Fuck off ✓	Fuck off	Phrase	¡Come mierda! No me hables así.	Fuck off! Dont talk to me like that.	The phrase ¡come mierda! is often used to express strong disapproval or frustration towards someone in Latin American cultures.	Phrase
Lucer	To shine/look like ✓	Att lysa/se	Verb	El sol luce brillante hoy.	The sun shines bright today.	Fun fact: Lucer is often used to describe how something appears or shines, adding a sense of beauty to the description.	Verb
Tocarse fondo	To hit rock bottom ✓	Nå botten	Phrase	Juan se dio cuenta de que había tocado fondo.	Juan realized that he had hit rock bottom.	Tocarse fondo is often used to describe a situation where someone reaches their lowest point before making a change.	Phrase
La pesadilla	The nightmare ✓	Maran	Noun	La pesadilla fue aterradora.	The nightmare was terrifying.	La pesadilla is often used in literature and film to describe intense fear or distress during sleep.	Noun
Reclutar	To recruit ✓	Att rekrytera	Verb	Voy a reclutar nuevos miembros para el equipo.	I am going to recruit new members for the team.	Fun fact: Reclutar is commonly used in both business and military contexts in Spanish.	Verb
La recluta	The recruit ✓	Rekryten	Noun	La recluta está lista para iniciar su entrenamiento.	The recruit is ready to start her training.	La recluta is often used to refer to a female recruit in military contexts.	Noun
A partir de hoy	From now on ✓	Från och med idag	Phrase	A partir de hoy, empezaré a hacer ejercicio todos los días.	From now on, I will start exercising every day.	A partir de hoy is often used to signify a commitment or change in behavior starting immediately.	Phrase
El rencor	The resentment/grudge ✓	Resentimentet	Noun	El rencor puede afectar nuestras relaciones.	The resentment can affect our relationships.	El rencor is often depicted in literature as a powerful emotion that can lead to conflict.	Noun
El paraje	The place ✓	Platsen	Noun	El paraje es hermoso.	The place is beautiful.	El paraje is often used to describe a specific, often picturesque location in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Noun
La vibora	The viper ✓	Vipern	Noun	La víbora se desliza silenciosamente por el suelo.	The viper glides silently across the ground.	The phrase La víbora can also refer to someone who is cunning or treacherous in a figurative sense.	Noun
La piedad	The pity/compassion ✓	Medlidandet	Noun	La piedad es una virtud importante en la humanidad.	The pity is an important virtue in humanity.	La piedad can refer to both a feeling of compassion and a representation in art, famously depicted by Michelangelo in his sculpture.	Noun
La piscina	The pool ✓	Poolen	Noun	La piscina está llena de agua.	The pool is full of water.	La piscina is commonly used in Spanish-speaking countries to refer to a place for swimming and relaxation.	Noun
Supuestamente	Supposedly ✓	Tydligen	Adverb	Supuestamente, María vendrá a la fiesta.	Supposedly, Maria will come to the party.	Supuestamente is often used to indicate something is believed to be true based on hearsay or assumptions.	Adverb
¿A ti qué cojones importa?	What the hell do you care?	Vad fan spelar det för roll för dig? ✓	Phrase	No entiendo por qué estás tan preocupado, ¿a ti qué cojones importa?	I dont understand why youre so worried, what the hell do you care?	¿a ti qué cojones importa? is often used in casual conversations to express indifference about someones opinion or concern.	Phrase
Ajeno	Foreign/belonging to someone else ✓	Främmande	Adjective	No debo tocar lo que es ajeno.	I must not touch what belongs to someone else.	Ajeno is often used to express ownership or properties that do not belong to the speaker.	Adjective
Me partí de risa	I burst out laughing ✓	Jag brast ut i skratt	Phrase	Cuando escuché el chiste, me partí de risa	When I heard the joke, I burst out laughing	In Spanish, me partí de risa is a common expression used to convey strong amusement.	Phrase
O sea	I mean/in other words ✓	Jag menar	Phrase	No me gusta el helado, o sea, prefiero el chocolate.	I dont like ice cream, I mean, I prefer chocolate.	O sea is often used in spoken Spanish to clarify or rephrase information.	Phrase
Me flipa	I love ✓	Jag älskar	Phrase	Me flipa el chocolate	I love chocolate	The phrase Me flipa is often used to express strong enthusiasm or affection for something in Spanish.	Phrase
El carne de res	The beef ✓	Biffen	Noun	El carne de res es delicioso.	The beef is delicious.	El carne de res is commonly used in Spanish-speaking countries to refer to beef, particularly in culinary contexts.	Noun
¿Qué tiene?	So what? whats wrong with ...? ✓	Vad har det?	Phrase	¿Qué tiene el coche nuevo?	What’s wrong with the new car?	¿Qué tiene? can imply skepticism or indifference about a situation in casual conversation.	Phrase
Deducir	Deduct ✓	Att deducera	Verb	Es fácil deducir la respuesta.	It is easy to deduce the answer.	Deducir is often used in logical reasoning and problem-solving contexts.	Verb
¿Cómo va?	"How&#x27;s it going/how&#x27;s it going with ...? ✓"	Hur går det?	Phrase	¿Cómo va tu día?	Hows your day going?	¿Cómo va? is commonly used in casual conversations to ask someone about their well-being or current situation.	Phrase
El sentimiento es mutuo	The sentiment is mutual ✓	Känslan är ömsesidig	Phrase	El sentimiento es mutuo entre amigos.	The sentiment is mutual between friends.	El sentimiento es mutuo is often used to express shared feelings in friendships and relationships.	Phrase
Pendiente	Pending ✓	Pending	Adjective	El proyecto está pendiente.	The project is pending.	Pendiente can refer to something that is awaiting completion or decision, making it commonly used in both everyday and formal contexts.	Adjective
Sigue siendo	Is still (lit. continues to be) ✓	Fortfarande	Phrase	El sol sigue siendo brillante	The sun is still bright	The phrase Sigue siendo is often used to express continuity or persistence in various contexts.	Phrase
Varado	Stranded ✓	Strandad	Adjective	El barco está varado en la playa.	The boat is stranded on the beach.	Varado is often used in contexts related to boats or vehicles that cannot move.	Adjective
De cojones	Incredible	Som fan/otroligt (bra eller dåligt) ✓	Adjective	Ese coche es rápido de cojones.	That car is incredibly fast.	De cojones is a colloquial expression often used to emphasize something, whether positive or negative.	Adjective
Reventar	Burst ✓	Att spricka	Verb	El globo va a reventar.	The balloon is going to burst.	Reventar is often used to talk about things that explode or break suddenly.	Verb
Descalzo	Barefoot ✓	Barfota	Adjective	Voy a caminar descalzo por la playa.	I am going to walk barefoot on the beach.	The word descalzo is often used in poetic and romantic contexts in Spanish literature.	Adjective
El chute	The shot (sports)/injection (medical) ✓	Injektionen	Noun	El chute mejoró su rendimiento en el partido.	The shot improved his performance in the match.	El chute can refer to both a sports shot and a medical injection, showcasing its versatility in context.	Noun
El palo	The stick ✓	Den pinnen	Noun	El palo es largo.	The stick is long.	In Spanish, El palo can refer to a physical stick or be used metaphorically to mean a tough situation.	Noun
El calcetín	The sock ✓	Strumpan	Noun	El calcetín es rojo.	The sock is red.	El calcetín is commonly used in everyday language to refer to a sock, often associated with comfort and warmth.	Noun
Niquelado	Nickel plated ✓	Nickelpläterad	Adjective	El grifo de la cocina es niquelado.	The kitchen faucet is nickel plated.	Niquelado is often used to describe metal objects that have a shiny, protective coating.	Adjective
El embarazo	The pregnancy ✓	Graviditeten	Noun	El embarazo puede ser una experiencia hermosa.	The pregnancy can be a beautiful experience.	El embarazo is often associated with joy and anticipation in many cultures.	Noun
Descoserse	To come unstiched ✓	Att gå isär	Verb	El vestido se empezó a descoser.	The dress began to come unstiched.	Descoserse is commonly used in fashion contexts to describe garments that are falling apart.	Verb
El peluche	The stuffed animal	Gosedjuret ✓	Noun	El peluche es muy suave.	The stuffed animal is very soft.	El peluche is often used to refer to any soft toy, especially those meant for hugging.	Noun
La vagoneta	The wagon/trolley ✓	Vagongen	Noun	La vagoneta está llena de cajas.	The wagon is full of boxes.	La vagoneta is often used in transportation contexts, particularly in logistics and mining.	Noun
Cortar el rollo	To kill the mood/interrupt ✓	Att döda stämningen	Phrase	No te preocupes, no quiero cortar el rollo.	Dont worry, I dont want to kill the mood.	Cortar el rollo is often used in social situations to maintain a light atmosphere.	Phrase
¿Qué se te pasa por la cabeza?	"What&#x27;s going through your head? ✓"	Vad tänker du på?	Phrase	A veces me pregunto, ¿qué se te pasa por la cabeza?	Sometimes I wonder, whats going through your head?	This phrase is often used to ask someone about their thoughts or feelings in a casual and friendly manner.	Phrase
Enrollarse con alguien	To get involved with someone ✓	Att bli involverad med någon	Phrase	Ella decidió enrollarse con alguien en la fiesta.	She decided to get involved with someone at the party.	Enrollarse con alguien is commonly used in casual conversations in Spain to refer to romantic entanglements.	Phrase
Arrastrar 	To drag	Att släpa ✓	Verb	Voy a arrastrar la caja.	I am going to drag the box.	Arrastrar is often used in both physical contexts, like dragging an object, and emotional ones, like dragging ones feet.	Verb
El cabezazo	The headbutt ✓	Den huvudknäppen	Noun	El cabezazo fue decisivo en el partido.	The headbutt was decisive in the match.	El cabezazo is often used in sports contexts, especially in soccer, to describe an impressive aerial move.	Noun
El gemelo	The twin ✓	Tvillingen	Noun	El gemelo es muy divertido.	The twin is very funny.	El gemelo is often used in contexts discussing siblings or identical twins in Spanish culture.	Noun
La aleta	The fin (on marine animals, diving gear, airplanes) ✓	Fena	Phrase	La aleta del pez lo ayuda a nadar más rápido.	The fin of the fish helps it swim faster.	In marine biology, fins are essential for locomotion in water, illustrating how vital la aleta is for aquatic life.	Phrase
El perro guía	The guide dog ✓	Ledarhunden	Noun	El perro guía ayuda a las personas con discapacidad visual.	The guide dog helps people with visual disabilities.	El perro guía is commonly used in contexts related to assistance and support for those who are blind or visually impaired.	Noun
A puñaladas	Stabbed/by stab wounds ✓	Stabbed/med kniv	Phrase	El hombre fue encontrado a puñaladas en un callejón.	The man was found stabbed in an alley.	The phrase A puñaladas is often used in crime reports in Spanish-speaking countries.	Phrase
El gorro	The hat	Mössan ✓	Noun	El gorro es muy caliente en invierno.	The hat is very warm in winter.	El gorro is often used in Spain to refer to a knitted hat commonly worn during cold months.	Noun
La gorra	The cap	Kepsen ✓	Noun	La gorra es roja.	The cap is red.	La gorra is commonly used in everyday conversation in Spain to refer to a baseball-style cap.	Noun
A toda cuesta	At all costs ✓	Till varje pris	Phrase	Voy a terminar este proyecto a toda cuesta.	I am going to finish this project at all costs.	The phrase A toda cuesta emphasizes determination and commitment, often used in contexts where success is crucial.	Phrase
Blando	Soft/tender ✓	Mjukt	Adjective	El pan está blando.	The bread is soft.	Blando is often used to describe food textures, especially baked goods.	Adjective
La libreta	The notebook ✓	Anteckningsboken	Noun	La libreta está en la mesa.	The notebook is on the table.	La libreta is commonly used in schools and offices for note-taking and organizing information.	Noun
Poner huevos	To lay eggs ✓	Lägga ägg	Phrase	Las gallinas ponen huevos todos los días.	The hens lay eggs every day.	Poner huevos is often used literally for animals but can also have a figurative meaning in certain contexts.	Phrase
Estimar	To estimate/value/appreciate ✓	Att uppskatta	Verb	Yo estimaré el costo de la reparación.	I will estimate the cost of the repair.	Estimar can also mean to appreciate someones efforts in personal contexts.	Verb
El globo	The baloon ✓	Ballongen	Noun	El globo es rojo.	The balloon is red.	El globo can refer not only to the toy balloon but also to airships or blimps in a broader context.	Noun
Sujetar	To hold on too/restrain/fasten (thing, person, idea) ✓	Att hålla fast vid	Verb	Voy a sujetar la cuerda.	I am going to hold on to the rope.	Sujetar is often used in both physical and metaphorical contexts, making it versatile in Spanish.	Verb
Me cuadra	It suits me ✓	Det passar mig	Phrase	El horario de la clase me cuadra	The class schedule suits me	Me cuadra is often used in everyday conversation to express that something fits well with your needs or preferences.	Phrase
El boletín	The newsletter	Nyhetsbladet ✓	Noun	El boletín se envía cada semana.	The newsletter is sent out every week.	El boletín refers to a publication that shares news or updates, commonly used in both formal and informal contexts.	Noun
Adjuntar	To attach ✓	Att bifoga	Verb	Voy a adjuntar el documento.	I am going to attach the document.	Fun fact: Adjuntar is commonly used in emails when sending files.	Verb
Sin querer	Accidentally ✓	Av misstag	Adverb	Rompí la taza sin querer.	I broke the cup accidentally.	Sin querer is often used to express unintentional actions, making it a common expression in daily conversations.	Adverb
Al pie de la letra	To the letter	Till punkt och pricka ✓	Phrase	Siguió las instrucciones al pie de la letra.	He followed the instructions to the letter.	The phrase Al pie de la letra is often used to emphasize strict adherence to rules or instructions.	Phrase
El frijol	The bean ✓	Bönan	Noun	El frijol es saludable.	The bean is healthy.	El frijol is a staple in many Latin American diets and is often used in dishes like tacos and soups.	Noun
El lince	The lynx	Lodjuret ✓	Noun	El lince es un animal muy rápido.	The lynx is a very fast animal.	El lince is used to refer specifically to the Iberian lynx, a species native to the Iberian Peninsula.	Noun
El asco	Disgust	Avskyn ✓	Noun	El asco me invade cuando veo la suciedad.	The disgust overwhelms me when I see the dirt.	El asco is often used to express strong feelings of revulsion or distaste in everyday conversations.	Noun
El chaleco	The vest ✓	Västen	Noun	El chaleco es azul.	The vest is blue.	El chaleco is commonly used in Spanish-speaking countries to refer to a type of sleeveless garment.	Noun
Quedarse en las estacadas	Left behind	Bli lämnad/stanna i sticket ✓	Phrase	No puedo dejar que mis amigos se queden en las estacadas.	I cant let my friends get left behind.	Quedarse en las estacadas is often used to describe a situation where someone feels abandoned or unsupported by others.	Phrase
Debíl	Weak ✓	Svag	Adjective	El niño es débil.	The boy is weak.	In Spanish, débil describes someone lacking strength, both physically and metaphorically.	Adjective
Colgar el teléfono	To hang up ✓	Att lägga på	Phrase	Ella decidió colgar el teléfono después de la conversación.	She decided to hang up the phone after the conversation.	Colgar el teléfono is commonly used in everyday conversations when ending a call, much like its English equivalent.	Phrase
Te echo de menos	I miss you ✓	Jag saknar dig	Phrase	Te echo de menos	I miss you	The phrase Te echo de menos is commonly used in Spanish to express feelings of longing and affection for someone who is not present.	Phrase
El atracador	The robber ✓	Rånaren	Noun	El atracador fue arrestado anoche.	The robber was arrested last night.	El atracador is commonly used in crime stories and reports in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
El atraco	The robbery ✓	Rån	Noun	El atraco ocurrió en la noche.	The robbery happened at night.	El atraco is commonly used in Spanish media to refer to criminal heists or thefts.	Noun
Atracar	To rob ✓	Att råna	Verb	El ladrón decidió atracar el banco.	The thief decided to rob the bank.	The verb Atracar is commonly used in the context of robbery, especially related to violent or forceful acts.	Verb
El timbre	The doorbell ✓	Dörrklockan	Noun	El timbre suena cuando alguien llega.	The doorbell rings when someone arrives.	Fun fact: El timbre is commonly used in Spanish-speaking homes to welcome visitors.	Noun
¿Que quiere decir?	What does/could it mean? ✓	Vad betyder det?	Phrase	¿Qué quiere decir esta palabra?	What does this word mean?	¿Que quiere decir? is commonly used when seeking clarification or understanding of unfamiliar terms or phrases.	Phrase
Bostezar	To yawn ✓	Att gäspa	Verb	Bostezo cuando tengo sueño.	I yawn when I am sleepy.	Bostezar is often used to express boredom or tiredness in casual conversations.	Verb
El bostezo	The yawn ✓	Gapen	Noun	El bostezo es contagioso.	The yawn is contagious.	Fun fact: El bostezo is often associated with sleepiness or boredom in Spanish culture.	Noun
Salir cagando leches	To dash out/leave hurriedly ✓	Att rusa ut	Phrase	El niño salió cagando leches de la tienda.	The boy dashed out carrying milk from the store.	Salir cagando leches is often used in informal contexts to describe someone leaving quickly, often in a rush.	Phrase
El tribunal	The court	Domstolen ✓	Noun	El tribunal toma decisiones importantes.	The court makes important decisions.	El tribunal refers to a judicial body, playing a crucial role in legal proceedings in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
El saquito	The little bag/sack (e.g tea) ✓	Den lilla påsen	Noun	El saquito está lleno de té.	The little bag is full of tea.	El saquito is often used when referring to tea bags in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
La graja	The rook	Råkan ✓	Noun	La graja vuela alto en el cielo.	The rook flies high in the sky.	La graja is often associated with folklore and is known for its intelligence.	Noun
Semejante	Such/similar ✓	Sådan	Adjective	No hay nada semejante a su amor.	There is nothing similar to your love.	The word semejante can also function as an adjective and a pronoun in Spanish, often used to compare things.	Adjective
Sudar	To sweat ✓	Att svettas	Verb	Estoy empezando a sudar	I am starting to sweat	In Spanish, sudar is commonly used in contexts related to physical activity or heat.	Verb
El suceso	The event ✓	Evenemanget	Noun	El suceso fue inolvidable.	The event was unforgettable.	El suceso is often used in Spanish to refer to significant happenings or incidents.	Noun
Fue divertido mientras duró	It was fun while it lasted ✓	Det var roligt så länge det varade	Phrase	El verano pasado fue divertido mientras duró.	Last summer was fun while it lasted.	The phrase is often used to reflect on fleeting experiences.	Phrase
El gancho	The hook ✓	Haken	Noun	El gancho está en la pared.	The hook is on the wall.	El gancho can refer to physical hooks used for hanging or metaphorically for something that draws attention.	Noun
La tapa	The cover/lid ✓	Locket	Noun	La tapa está en la mesa.	The cover is on the table.	In Spain, La tapa also refers to a small portion of food served with drinks.	Noun
El patio de recreo	The playground ✓	Lekplatsen	Noun	Los niños juegan en el patio de recreo.	The children are playing in the playground.	El patio de recreo is often a central spot for socializing in schools.	Noun
La cueva	The cave ✓	Grottan	Noun	La cueva es oscura.	The cave is dark.	La cueva is often used in literature to symbolize mystery or secrets.	Noun
Portarse	To behave ✓	Att bete sig	Verb	Los niños siempre se portan bien en clase.	The children always behave well in class.	Portarse is commonly used in Spanish to describe someones behavior, particularly in social settings.	Verb
El casero	The landlord ✓	Hyresvärden	Noun	El casero arregló el grifo de la cocina.	The landlord fixed the kitchen faucet.	In some regions, el casero can also refer to someone who is a caretaker or custodian of a property.	Noun
La caldera	The boiler ✓	Den kokande	Noun	La caldera está funcionando correctamente.	The boiler is working properly.	La caldera is commonly used in discussions about heating systems in homes.	Noun
El pelador	The peeler ✓	Skrapa	Noun	El pelador es una herramienta útil en la cocina.	The peeler is a useful tool in the kitchen.	Fun fact: El pelador is commonly used in Spanish-speaking kitchens for peeling fruits and vegetables.	Noun
No le da ni la hora	"He doesn&#x27;t even give the time of day ✓"	Han ger henne inte ens tiden	Phrase	Ella le gusta mucho, pero él no le da ni la hora.	She likes him a lot, but he doesnt even give her the time of day.	No le da ni la hora is often used to express someones uninterest in another person.	Phrase
La vista	The view	Visningen ✓	Noun	La vista del atardecer es impresionante.	The view of the sunset is stunning.	La vista is often used to describe not just physical views but also perspectives or viewpoints in discussions.	Noun
Más que nadie	More than anyone ✓	Mer än någon	Phrase	Ella me entiende más que nadie.	She understands me more than anyone.	Más que nadie is often used to emphasize a unique understanding or connection with someone.	Phrase
Enojado	Angry ✓	Arg	Adjective	Estoy enojado porque perdí mi libro.	I am angry because I lost my book.	Enojado can be used to express strong feelings of annoyance or frustration in Spanish.	Adjective
Enojar	To anger ✓	Att förarga	Verb	No me gusta enojar a mis amigos.	I dont like to anger my friends.	Enojar is commonly used in informal contexts, and its equivalent enojarse means to get angry.	Verb
El portátil	The laptop ✓	Den bärbara datorn	Noun	El portátil está sobre la mesa.	The laptop is on the table.	Fun fact: In Spain, el portátil is commonly used in schools and universities for both learning and teaching.	Noun
Recoger a alguien	To pick up someone	Att hämta någon/ansluta sig till någon ✓	Phrase	Voy a recoger a alguien en la estación.	I am going to pick up someone at the station.	Recoger a alguien is commonly used when talking about picking someone up by car or meeting someone.	Phrase
Pensar de	Think of ✓	Att tänka på	Verb	Pienso de ti a menudo.	I think of you often.	Pensar de is often used to express opinions about someone or something.	Verb
Pensar en	Think about ✓	Att tänka på	Verb	Estoy pensando en mis vacaciones.	I am thinking about my vacation.	Pensar en is commonly used to express thoughts or considerations about specific subjects.	Verb
Mientras que	While/whereas ✓	Medan	Conjunction/subjunction	Mientras que él estudia, yo escucho música.	While he studies, I listen to music.	Mientras que is often used to contrast two simultaneous actions in Spanish.	Conjunction/subjunction
El consumidor	The consumer ✓	Konsumenten	Noun	El consumidor es muy importante en la economía.	The consumer is very important in the economy.	El consumidor is often used in discussions about market trends and consumer rights.	Noun
Fracasar	To fail ✓	Att misslyckas	Verb	Yo no quiero fracasar en el examen.	I do not want to fail the exam.	Fracasar is commonly used in contexts related to education and personal goals.	Verb
En sí/de por sí	In itself/by itself	I sig/som det är (1) ✓	Phrase	La pintura en sí es hermosa.	The painting by itself is beautiful.	En sí/de por sí is often used to emphasize the intrinsic qualities of something.	Phrase
Por sí solo	Alone	Av sig självt ✓	Phrase	El proyecto no puede completarse por sí solo.	The project cannot be completed on its own.	The phrase Por sí solo is often used to indicate something that can stand independently or function without assistance.	Phrase
Envejecer	To age ✓	Att åldras	Verb	Las personas comienzan a envejecer desde el momento en que nacen.	People begin to age from the moment they are born.	Fun fact: Envejecer can also refer to the aging of objects or places, not just people.	Verb
La carencia	The lack ✓	Bristen	Noun	La carencia de recursos afecta a muchas comunidades.	The lack of resources affects many communities.	Fun fact: La carencia is often used in discussions about economic issues and social welfare in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
Hambreado	Hungry ✓	Hungrig	Adjective	Estoy hambreado después de correr.	I am hungry after running.	In some Latin American countries, hambreado is commonly used in informal settings to express hunger.	Adjective
Tragón	Greedy	Glupsk ✓	Adjective	Él es un tragón cuando se trata de postres.	He is a glutton when it comes to desserts.	Tragón is often used to describe someone who eats excessively or indulges a lot, especially with sweets.	Adjective
El tragón	The glutton	Någon glupsk ✓	Noun	El tragón comió toda la pizza.	The glutton ate all the pizza.	El tragón is often used to describe someone who overeats or is greedy with food.	Noun
Pegarse	To stick ✓	Att sticka	Verb	Me voy a pegar a la pared.	I am going to stick to the wall.	Pegarse can also mean to adhere or get close to someone or something.	Verb
Apegarse a	To stick to ✓	Att fästa vid	Verb	Es importante apegarse a tus principios.	Its important to stick to your principles.	Apegarse a often implies a strong emotional connection or commitment to something.	Verb
La lata	The can ✓	Burken	Noun	La lata está en la mesa.	The can is on the table.	Fun fact: La lata is commonly used in Spanish to refer not only to food cans but also to any metal container.	Noun
Animar	To encourage ✓	Att uppmuntra	Verb	Voy a animar a mis amigos.	I am going to encourage my friends.	The verb animar is often used when motivating or uplifting someone.	Verb
Así es	"That&#x27;s right/that&#x27;s how it is ✓"	Det stämmer	Phrase	Así es la vida.	Thats how life is.	Así es is often used in conversations to affirm someones statement or to agree with a perspective.	Phrase
Con esperanza	Hopefully ✓	Förhoppningsvis	Phrase	Con esperanza, el futuro será mejor.	Hopefully, the future will be better.	Con esperanza is often used to express optimism about future events or outcomes.	Phrase
Esperanzadamente	Hopefully (formal) ✓	Förhoppningsvis	Adjective	Esperanzadamente, espero que todo vaya bien.	Hopefully, I hope everything goes well.	Esperanzadamente is often used in formal contexts to express hope or optimism about future events.	Adjective
Ir por buen camino	To be on the right track ✓	Att vara på rätt väg	Phrase	Todos estamos por buen camino en este proyecto.	We are all on the right track with this project.	Ir por buen camino is often used to encourage progress in a positive direction.	Phrase
Ya veremos	"We&#x27;ll see ✓"	Vi får se	Phrase	Ya veremos qué pasa mañana.	Well see what happens tomorrow.	Ya veremos is often used in Spanish to express uncertainty about future outcomes.	Phrase
Necesariamente	Necessarily ✓	Nödvändigtvis	Adverb	No siempre se puede ganar, pero hay que intentarlo necesariamente.	You cant always win, but you have to try necessarily.	Necesariamente is often used to express that something must happen or is required in a specific context.	Adverb
Dañarse	To damage	Att skadas ✓	Verb	El coche puede dañarse si no lo cuidas.	The car can get damaged if you dont take care of it.	Dañarse is often used reflexively in Spanish to indicate that something damages itself.	Verb
La mudanza	The move ✓	Flytten	Noun	La mudanza fue un proceso agotador.	The move was an exhausting process.	La mudanza is commonly used in Spanish-speaking countries to describe the act of relocating to a new home.	Noun
Empaquetar	To pack	Att packa (in i ett paket) ✓	Verb	Voy a empaquetar las cajas.	I am going to pack the boxes.	Fun fact: Empaquetar is commonly used in logistics and moving, especially during the preparation phase for relocation.	Verb
Embalar	To pack	Att emballera ✓	Verb	Voy a embalar mis cosas para la mudanza.	I am going to pack my things for the move.	The verb embalar is commonly used in the context of packing items for shipping or relocating.	Verb
Empacar	To pack	Att packa (generellt) ✓	Verb	Voy a empacar mis cosas.	I am going to pack my things.	Empacar is commonly used when preparing for travel or moving to a new place.	Verb
El inquilino	The tenant ✓	Hyresgästen	Noun	El inquilino paga el alquiler todos los meses.	The tenant pays the rent every month.	El inquilino is often used in housing contexts to refer specifically to someone who rents a property.	Noun
Estar en buenas manos	To be in good hands ✓	Att vara i goda händer	Phrase	El proyecto está en buenas manos.	The project is in good hands.	Estar en buenas manos is often used to express trust in someones abilities or care.	Phrase
Extraño	Awkward ✓	Konstig	Adjective	Su comportamiento era muy extraño.	His behavior was very strange.	Extraño can also mean strange or unusual in addition to awkward in Spanish.	Adjective
Las sobras	The leftovers ✓	De rester	Noun	Las sobras son deliciosas.	The leftovers are delicious.	Las sobras is commonly used to refer to food that remains after a meal.	Noun
Hogareño	Homelike ✓	Hemmy	Adjective	Mi casa tiene un ambiente hogareño.	My house has a homelike atmosphere.	Hogareño is often used to describe cozy, welcoming spaces that feel like home.	Adjective
El ecualizador	The equalizer ✓	Det equalizer	Noun	El ecualizador mejora la calidad del sonido.	The equalizer improves the sound quality.	Fun fact: El ecualizador is commonly used in music production to adjust audio frequencies.	Noun
Así como si nada	Nothing at all	Som (om) ingenting ✓	Phrase	Ella entró a la reunión así como si nada.	She walked into the meeting just like it was nothing.	The phrase Así como si nada is often used to describe someone acting casually or without concern in a situation where one might expect more seriousness.	Phrase
El cuñado	Brother-in-law ✓	Svågern	Noun	El cuñado se llama Carlos.	The brother-in-laws name is Carlos.	In Spanish culture, el cuñado often refers not only to a brother-in-law but can also imply a close familial bond.	Noun
Pendejo	Stupid ✓	Dum	Adjective	Eres un pendejo.	You are a stupid.	Pendejo is often used in a humorous or light-hearted context in Latin American countries.	Adjective
Juzgar	To judge ✓	Döma	Phrase	No debemos juzgar a los demás sin conocer su historia.	We should not judge others without knowing their story.	Fun fact: Juzgar is often used in ethical discussions about fairness and compassion.	Phrase
Le tengo miedo	"I&#x27;m afraid of him ✓"	Jag är rädd för honom	Phrase	Le tengo miedo a ese perro	Im afraid of that dog	The phrase Le tengo miedo can express fear towards a person or an animal.	Phrase
Desahogar	To vent ✓	Att ventilera	Verb	A veces es necesario desahogar nuestros sentimientos.	Sometimes it is necessary to vent our feelings.	Desahogar can refer not only to expressing emotions but also to relieving burdens.	Verb
Estrellarse	To crash/fail spectacularly ✓	Att krocka	Verb	El proyecto se estrelló por falta de recursos.	The project crashed due to lack of resources.	Estrellarse is often used to describe not only physical crashes but also metaphorical failures in business or personal endeavors.	Verb
La planeación	The planning ✓	Planeringen	Noun	La planeación es esencial para el éxito del proyecto.	The planning is essential for the success of the project.	Fun fact: La planeación can also refer to strategic planning in various professional fields.	Noun
Por lo tanto	For that reason ✓	För den anledning	Conjunction/subjunction	No llegó a tiempo, por lo tanto perdió el autobús.	He didnt arrive on time, for that reason he missed the bus.	Por lo tanto is often used to indicate a conclusion or a consequence.	Conjunction/subjunction
Cara o cruz	Heads or tails ✓	Krona eller klave	Conjunction/subjunction	Voy a lanzar la moneda. ¿Cara o cruz?	Im going to flip the coin. Heads or tails?	The phrase Cara o cruz is commonly used in Spanish-speaking countries to decide between two options.	Conjunction/subjunction
Tirar una moneda	To flip a coin ✓	Slå en mynt	Phrase	Voy a tirar una moneda para decidir.	I am going to flip a coin to decide.	Tirar una moneda is commonly used in decision-making processes in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Phrase
Qué onda	"What&#x27;s up (latam) ✓"	Vad händer	Phrase	¿Qué onda, amigo?	Whats up, friend?	Qué onda is a casual greeting commonly used in Latin American countries, especially among young people.	Phrase
Me salvó el culo	It saved my ass ✓	Det räddade min röv	Phrase	Esa herramienta me salvó el culo	That tool saved my ass	The phrase Me salvó el culo is a colloquial expression often used in informal conversations to indicate that something or someone helped you out of a difficult situation.	Phrase
No mames	No way (mexican) ✓	Inget sätt	Phrase	No mames, no puedo creer que eso sucediera.	No way, I cant believe that happened.	No mames is often used among friends in informal settings to express disbelief or surprise.	Phrase
Ya lo que sea	Whatever ✓	Vad som helst	Phrase	No importa, ya lo que sea.	It doesnt matter, whatever.	Ya lo que sea is often used to express indifference or acceptance of any outcome.	Phrase
No es para tanto	"It&#x27;s not that big of a deal ✓"	Det är inte så farligt	Phrase	No es para tanto, solo fue un pequeño malentendido.	Its not that big of a deal, it was just a small misunderstanding.	No es para tanto is often used to downplay a situation or conflict in everyday conversations.	Phrase
El pedacito	The little piece ✓	Det lilla stycket	Noun	Me gusta comer el pedacito de pastel.	I like to eat the little piece of cake.	El pedacito is often used to refer to a small portion of food in informal contexts.	Noun
El reembolso	The refund ✓	Återbetalningen	Noun	El reembolso llegará en tres días.	The refund will arrive in three days.	El reembolso is commonly used in customer service contexts when discussing money returned to a buyer.	Noun
De regreso	Back/return/on the return ✓	Tillbaka	Adverb	Estoy de regreso en casa.	I am back home.	De regreso is often used to indicate that someone has returned to a previous place.	Adverb
Deletrear	To spell ✓	Att stava	Verb	¿Puedes deletrear tu nombre?	Can you spell your name?	In Spanish, deletrear is used in everyday contexts, often when teaching children how to pronounce or write words correctly.	Verb
Termina siendo	To end up being ✓	Att sluta med att vara	Phrase	Ella pensó que sería doctora, pero termina siendo profesora.	She thought she would be a doctor, but ends up being a teacher.	Termina siendo is often used to indicate an unexpected outcome in a situation.	Phrase
Inundarse	To get flooded ✓	Att bli översvämmad	Verb	Cuando llueve mucho, la calle se puede inundar.	When it rains a lot, the street can get flooded.	Inundarse is often used in contexts related to heavy rains or overflowing water.	Verb
Inundar	To flood ✓	Att översvämma	Verb	La lluvia comenzó a inundar el campo.	The rain started to flood the field.	Inundar is often used to describe not only literal flooding but also metaphorical situations, such as being overwhelmed with emotions.	Verb
En vano	In vain ✓	I förgäves	Adverb	Estudié en vano para el examen.	I studied in vain for the exam.	En vano is often used to express efforts that have not yielded results, emphasizing futility.	Adverb
Por encima de	Above ✓	Över	Adverb	El perro saltó por encima de la valla.	The dog jumped above the fence.	Por encima de is frequently used to indicate physical elevation or to describe a position that surpasses another.	Adverb
Atar	To tie/bind ✓	Att binda	Verb	Voy a atar los zapatos.	I am going to tie the shoes.	Atar is commonly used in everyday contexts, such as tying shoelaces or bundles.	Verb
Rodeado	Surrounded ✓	Omgiven	Adjective	El castillo está rodeado de árboles.	The castle is surrounded by trees.	Rodeado can be used to describe something that is encircled or enclosed by other objects or entities.	Adjective
Rodear	To surround ✓	Att omge	Verb	El bosque rodea la casa.	The forest surrounds the house.	Rodear is often used in both literal and figurative contexts, such as surrounding someone with support.	Verb
Alucinar	To hallucinate ✓	Att hallucera	Verb	Hoy soñé tanto que comencé a alucinar.	Today I dreamed so much that I started to hallucinate.	In slang, alucinar can also mean to be amazed or surprised, especially when talking about something impressive.	Verb
Venecer	To beat ✓	Att besegra	Verb	El equipo logró vencer a su rival.	The team managed to beat its rival.	Venecer is often used in sports contexts to indicate overcoming an opponent.	Verb
El martillo	The hammer ✓	Hamern	Noun	El martillo es una herramienta útil.	The hammer is a useful tool.	El martillo is commonly used in construction and carpentry.	Noun
El clavo	The nail	Spiken ✓	Noun	El clavo es muy útil para colgar cuadros.	The nail is very useful for hanging pictures.	El clavo is commonly used in construction and DIY projects in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
La uña	The nail	Nageln/klon ✓	Noun	La uña está rota.	The nail is broken.	Fun fact: La uña is commonly used in both medical and beauty contexts relating to nail care.	Noun
El tornillo	The screw	Skruven ✓	Noun	El tornillo está en la mesa.	The screw is on the table.	El tornillo is commonly used in construction and furniture assembly.	Noun
Apagar los sueños de alguien	To crush someones dreams	Att krossa någons drömmar ✓	Phrase	No deberías apagar los sueños de alguien.	You shouldnt crush someones dreams.	The phrase Apagar los sueños de alguien is often used to emphasize the importance of supporting peoples ambitions and aspirations.	Phrase
El sabio	The sage ✓	Den vise	Noun	El sabio enseña a sus discípulos.	The wise teaches his disciples.	The term El sabio can refer not only to wisdom but also to individuals known for their knowledge in various cultures.	Noun
Crecer como espuma	To grow like foam (grow a lot) ✓	Att växa som skum	Phrase	La empresa ha comenzado a crecer como espuma en los últimos meses.	The company has started to grow like foam in recent months.	Crecer como espuma is often used to describe rapid growth in business or population.	Phrase
El cautivo	The prisoner ✓	Den fängslade	Noun	El cautivo está en una celda.	The captive is in a cell.	El cautivo is often used in literature to symbolize struggle and freedom.	Noun
Estruendoso	Deafening	Dånande ✓	Adjective	El ruido del trueno fue estruendoso.	The sound of the thunder was deafening.	Estruendoso is often used to describe extremely loud sounds, such as thunder or an explosion.	Adjective
El punto de partida	The starting point	Utgångspunkten ✓	Noun	El punto de partida es clave para entender el proyecto.	The starting point is key to understanding the project.	El punto de partida is often used in discussions to denote the beginning of a process or idea.	Noun
Gestionar	To manage	Att hantera ✓	Verb	Yo tengo que gestionar mis tareas diarias.	I have to manage my daily tasks.	Gestionar is commonly used in business contexts to refer to handling various responsibilities or resources.	Verb
¿Qué tal estás?	How are you? ✓	Hur mår du?	Phrase	¿Qué tal estás? Espero que estés bien.	How are you? I hope youre well.	¿Qué tal estás? is commonly used in Spain as an informal way to check on someones well-being.	Phrase
Secar	To dry ✓	Att torka	Verb	Voy a secar los platos.	I am going to dry the dishes.	The verb to dry can refer to removing moisture from items or even letting something become dry naturally.	Verb
Seco	Dry ✓	Torr	Adjective	El clima está seco.	The weather is dry.	Dry can describe both weather and textures, making it versatile in English.	Adjective
¡Qúe bueno más día hace!	What a nice day it is! ✓	Vilken fin dag det är!	Interjection	¡Qué bueno más día hace!	What a nice day it is!	The phrase reflects appreciation for pleasant weather and is commonly used in Spain to express enjoyment of a sunny day.	Interjection
Güey/tipo/vato	Dude ✓	Snubbe	Pronoun	¿Qué onda, güey?	Whats up, dude?	Güey/tipo/vato is commonly used in Mexico and other Latin American countries among friends to address each other casually.	Pronoun
¡Ánimo!	Cheer up! ✓	Må bättre	Interjection	¡Ánimo, todo mejorará pronto!	Cheer up, everything will get better soon!	The phrase ¡ánimo! is often used in Spain to encourage someone who is feeling down.	Interjection
¿Te puedo molestar con ..?	Can you help me with/give me ..? ✓	Kan jag störa dig med...?	Phrase	¿Te puedo molestar con un favor?	Can I bother you with a favor?	The phrase ¿te puedo molestar con ...? is commonly used in Spanish to politely ask for help or a favor, emphasizing respect for the other persons time.	Phrase
La corneja	The raven	Kråkan ✓	Noun	La corneja es un ave inteligente.	The raven is an intelligent bird.	La corneja is often associated with folklore and myths in various cultures.	Noun
O como se diga	"Or whatever it&#x27;s called ✓"	Eller vad det nu kallas	Phrase	No me gusta el arte abstracto, o como se diga.	I dont like abstract art, or whatever its called.	O como se diga is often used to express uncertainty about a term or phrase in Spanish.	Phrase
Jelo kiti	Hello kitty ✓	Hej katt	Phrase	Jelo kiti es una frase divertida para saludar.	Jelo kiti is a fun phrase to say hello.	Jelo kiti is a playful adaptation of Hello Kitty in Spanish-speaking contexts.	Phrase
Mimir	Sleep	Gå till sängs (lekfullt/gulligt) ✓	Phrase	Es hora de mimir.	It’s time to sleep.	Mimir is often used by children in Spanish-speaking countries when referring to going to bed.	Phrase
Es hora de mimir	"It&#x27;s time to sleep"	Dags att koja ✓	Phrase	Es hora de mimir, niños.	Its time to sleep, kids.	The phrase Es hora de mimir is a playful way to say its time to go to bed, often used with children.	Phrase
Golpear	To hit/strike ✓	Att slå	Verb	Yo voy a golpear la pelota.	I am going to hit the ball.	Golpear is commonly used in both literal and metaphorical contexts in Spanish.	Verb
Apetecer	To feel like ✓	Att känna för	Verb	Me apetece un café.	I feel like having a coffee.	Apetecer is often used to express desires for food or activities in Spanish.	Verb
No me surge	"It doesn&#x27;t come to me"	Jag kommer inte på/känner inte för/fick aldrig möjlighet ✓	Phrase	Hoy no me surge una idea para el proyecto.	Today, no idea comes to me for the project.	No me surge can express a lack of inspiration or opportunity in both everyday and creative contexts.	Phrase
El espacio	The space (physical or cosmic) ✓	Rummet	Noun	El espacio es infinito.	The space is infinite.	El espacio is frequently used in scientific discussions about astronomy and physics.	Noun
Agarrar	To grab/catch/take ✓	Att ta	Verb	Voy a agarrar la pelota.	I am going to grab the ball.	In some contexts, agarrar can mean to understand in Latin America.	Verb
Regatear	To haggle ✓	Att pruta	Verb	Me gusta regatear en el mercado.	I like to haggle at the market.	Regatear is commonly used in market cultures, especially in Latin America, where bargaining is a traditional practice.	Verb
Antojarse	To crave ✓	Att ha en känsla för	Verb	Me antojo un dulce para la merienda.	I crave a sweet treat for snack time.	Antojarse is often used in contexts involving food, but can also refer to other desires or urges.	Verb
Todo menos	Everything but/except ✓	Allt utom	Phrase	Yo como todo menos pescado.	I eat everything but fish.	Todo menos is often used to express exclusion in a list.	Phrase
Apuntarse	To sign up ✓	Att anmäla sig	Verb	Me quiero apuntar al curso de cocina.	I want to sign up for the cooking class.	Apuntarse is often used in the context of registering for classes or events in Spanish-speaking countries.	Verb
Inigualable	Unequaled/unparallelled ✓	Oerhört	Adjective	Su talento es inigualable.	Her talent is unparalleled.	Inigualable is often used to emphasize the uniqueness of a persons skills or qualities.	Adjective
La panza	The belly ✓	Den mage	Noun	La panza está llena.	The belly is full.	La panza is often used informally to refer to someones stomach, especially in a context of having eaten well.	Noun
Aun así	Still/even so ✓	Ändå	Conjunction/subjunction	No tengo mucho dinero, aun así, quiero ir de vacaciones.	I dont have much money, still, I want to go on vacation.	Aun así is often used to introduce a contrasting idea or situation.	Conjunction/subjunction
Me quito	I free/rid myself from/of, i take (something) off, i quit ✓	Jag befriar mig från	Phrase	Me quito el abrigo	I take off my coat	Me quito can express removing an article of clothing or quitting an activity.	Phrase
Cada uno a lo suyo	To each their own ✓	Var och en till sitt	Phrase	En la fiesta, todos tenían diferentes gustos musicales, cada uno a lo suyo.	At the party, everyone had different musical tastes, each to their own.	The phrase is often used to express acceptance of different preferences or opinions.	Phrase
Cada uno tiene lo suyo	Everyone has their own thing (problems/traits) ✓	Var och en har sitt	Phrase	Cada uno tiene lo suyo en la familia.	Everyone has their own thing in the family.	Cada uno tiene lo suyo highlights the uniqueness of individual experiences and traits.	Phrase
Lo suyo es/sería	The best (for them) is/would be ✓	Det bästa (för dem) är/skulle vara	Phrase	Lo suyo sería estudiar más	The best for them would be to study more	The phrase Lo suyo es/sería is often used to give advice or recommendations in a friendly manner.	Phrase
Conforme	In agreement/satisfied ✓	Bekräftad	Adjective	Estoy conforme con la decisión.	I am satisfied with the decision.	The word conforme is often used to express agreement or satisfaction in various contexts.	Adjective
El cuñadismo	The overconfidence	(killgissande/övertro på egen förmåga) ✓	Noun	A veces, mi hermano habla con tanto el cuñadisimo que parece que sabe todo.	Sometimes, my brother talks with so much el cuñadisimo that he seems to know everything.	El cuñadisimo is often used humorously to describe someone who overestimates their capabilities.	Noun
Pelar	To peel ✓	Att skala	Verb	Voy a pelar la manzana.	I am going to peel the apple.	Pelar is commonly used in cooking to describe removing the skin from fruits and vegetables.	Verb
Tartamudear	To stutter ✓	Att stamma	Verb	Él tiende a tartamudear cuando está nervioso.	He tends to stutter when he is nervous.	Fun fact: Tartamudear can be used in different contexts, including public speaking and social situations.	Verb
Cuidadoso	Careful ✓	Försiktig	Adjective	Ella es muy cuidadosa al manejar.	She is very careful when driving.	Cuidadoso emphasizes the importance of being cautious in various contexts, especially in actions or tasks that require attention.	Adjective
El ferrocarril	The railway ✓	Järnvägen	Noun	El ferrocarril conecta ciudades importantes.	The railway connects important cities.	El ferrocarril is often used in historical contexts in Spain to refer to the development of train systems.	Noun
El sentido común	The common sense ✓	Det sunda förnuftet	Noun	El sentido común es esencial en la toma de decisiones.	The common sense is essential in decision-making.	El sentido común is often referred to in discussions about practical decision-making and everyday reasoning.	Noun
La huella de carbono	The carbon footprint ✓	Koldioxidavtrycket	Noun	La huella de carbono es importante para el medio ambiente.	The carbon footprint is important for the environment.	Fun fact: La huella de carbono is used in environmental discussions to measure the impact of individual and collective activities on climate change.	Noun
El hongo	The mushroom ✓	Svampen	Noun	El hongo crece en el bosque.	The mushroom grows in the forest.	Fun fact: El hongo can refer to various types of mushrooms in Spanish, making it a versatile term in cooking and nature discussions.	Noun
El cuerno	The antler ✓	Det hornet	Noun	El cuerno era muy grande.	The antler was very large.	Fun fact: El cuerno can also refer to the horn of an animal, not just antlers.	Noun
Aquél	That one ✓	Den där	Pronoun	Aquél es mi libro favorito.	That one is my favorite book.	Aquél is often used to refer to something specific that is further away in distance or time.	Pronoun
La cerilla	The match ✓	Tändstickan	Noun	La cerilla se encendió fácilmente.	The match lit easily.	Fun fact: La cerilla is commonly used in everyday conversation when discussing lighting fires or candles.	Noun
El equipaje de mano	The hand luggage ✓	Det handbaggaget	Noun	El equipaje de mano es ligero.	The hand luggage is light.	El equipaje de mano is commonly used in air travel contexts to refer to bags passengers can carry on board.	Noun
El equipaje facturado	The checked luggage ✓	Det incheckade bagaget	Noun	El equipaje facturado llegó tarde.	The checked luggage arrived late.	El equipaje facturado is commonly used at airports to refer to luggage that has been checked in for flights.	Noun
La supervivencia	The survival ✓	Överlevnad	Noun	La supervivencia es esencial para todas las especies.	The survival is essential for all species.	La supervivencia is often used in discussions about ecology and conservation.	Noun
La yesca	The tinder ✓	Tändsticka	Noun	La yesca es esencial para encender un fuego.	The tinder is essential for starting a fire.	Fun fact: La yesca was traditionally used by campers and explorers to create a fire in wilderness areas.	Noun
El liquido	The liquid ✓	Den vätskan	Noun	El líquido es transparente.	The liquid is transparent.	El líquido is commonly used in various scientific contexts to describe substances in liquid form.	Noun
El encendedor de butano	The butane lighter ✓	Den butan tändare	Noun	El encendedor de butano es útil para encender velas.	The butane lighter is useful for lighting candles.	El encendedor de butano is a common object found in many households, especially for lighting candles and grills.	Noun
La ramita	The twig ✓	Kvisten	Noun	La ramita está en el suelo.	The twig is on the ground.	The diminutive form ramita often conveys affection or tenderness in Spanish.	Noun
La locura	The madness ✓	Galenskapen	Noun	La locura puede ser inspiradora.	The madness can be inspiring.	La locura is often used in literature and art to describe both creativity and chaos.	Noun
La funda	The cover ✓	Överdraget	Noun	La funda protege el libro.	The cover protects the book.	Fun fact: La funda can refer to various types of covers, such as for books, electronics, or furniture.	Noun
El musulmán	The muslim ✓	Den muslim	Noun	El musulmán reza en la mezquita.	The Muslim prays in the mosque.	El musulmán refers specifically to a male follower of Islam, and its use can signify cultural identity in Spanish-speaking contexts.	Noun
La receta	The recipe ✓	Receptet	Noun	La receta es deliciosa.	The recipe is delicious.	La receta is commonly used in cooking contexts across Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
Dirigirse	To direct oneself ✓	Att rikta sig	Verb	Me voy a dirigir a la reunión.	I am going to direct myself to the meeting.	The verb dirigirse can also be used in contexts of addressing someone formally or directing a speech.	Verb
Ensayar	To rehearse ✓	Att repetera	Verb	Hoy vamos a ensayar la obra de teatro.	Today we are going to rehearse the play.	Ensayar is commonly used in the context of theater and music.	Verb
Sumamente	Extremely ✓	Extremt	Adjective	El examen fue sumamente difícil.	The exam was extremely difficult.	Sumamente is often used to emphasize the intensity of an adjective in Spanish.	Adjective
El sudor	The sweat ✓	Svettet	Noun	El sudor es una señal de esfuerzo.	The sweat is a sign of effort.	El sudor is commonly associated with physical activity and stress in both emotional and physical contexts.	Noun
Costeño	Coastal ✓	Kustnära	Adjective	El clima costeño es cálido y agradable.	The coastal weather is warm and pleasant.	Costeño is commonly used in Latin America to describe anything related to coastal regions.	Adjective
Desabrido	Tasteless ✓	Smaklös	Adjective	El plato estaba desabrido y no me gustó.	The dish was tasteless and I didnt like it.	Desabrido can also describe someones personality, meaning dull or lacking flavor in character.	Adjective
La porquería	The crap ✓	Skiten	Noun	La porquería está por todas partes.	The crap is everywhere.	La porquería is often used colloquially to express frustration or disdain for something undesirable.	Noun
Destrozar	Shatter ✓	Att krossa	Verb	El viento puede destrozar las hojas secas.	The wind can shatter the dry leaves.	Destrozar can be used both literally and figuratively, making it versatile in describing destruction.	Verb
La mitad	Half ✓	Halvan	Noun	La mitad de la pizza se la comió Juan.	Juan ate the half of the pizza.	La mitad is often used in contexts involving division or sharing.	Noun
Meter un tiro	Put a shot (bullet) ✓	Sätta en skott	Phrase	Él decidió meter un tiro al aire.	He decided to put a shot in the air.	The phrase Meter un tiro can also colloquially refer to taking a risk or making a bold move.	Phrase
Toser	Cough ✓	Att hosta	Verb	Él necesita toser porque tiene un resfriado.	He needs to cough because he has a cold.	In Spanish, toser is commonly used in healthcare contexts, especially when discussing symptoms.	Verb
La huella	The footprint ✓	Fotavtrycket	Noun	La huella del animal estaba en el barro.	The footprint of the animal was in the mud.	La huella often refers to physical marks left by animals or people, but it can also symbolize impact left in a broader context.	Noun
Te quitas	You take off/rid yourself of ✓	Du tar av dig/slipper	Phrase	Te quitas la congoja/Te quitas la chaqueta	You get rid of the anxiety/You take off your jacket	Te quitas is commonly used when referring to removing clothing or accessories in everyday conversations.	Phrase
No me toca a mí	"It&#x27;s not my turn ✓"	Det är inte min tur	Phrase	No me toca a mí	Its not my turn	The phrase No me toca a mí is often used in games and casual situations to express that one is waiting for their opportunity.	Phrase
Meter la uña	Put the nail in ✓	Sätta spiken i	Phrase	Siempre es bueno meter la uña en el proyecto para asegurarse de que todo esté en orden.	It is always good to put the nail in the project to make sure everything is in order.	The phrase meter la uña is often used in Spanish to refer to making a final decisive point or correction.	Phrase
La mancuerna	The dumbbell ✓	Den hantel	Noun	La mancuerna es muy pesada.	The dumbbell is very heavy.	La mancuerna is commonly used in fitness contexts and reflects a popular exercise tool.	Noun
La barra	The bar ✓	Baren	Noun	La barra está llena de gente.	The bar is full of people.	La barra can refer to both a physical bar and a bar of something, like chocolate.	Noun
La polea	The pulley ✓	Hjulet	Noun	La polea es un componente esencial en las maquinarias.	The pulley is an essential component in machinery.	Fun fact: La polea is commonly used in engineering and construction to reduce effort in lifting objects.	Noun
El remo	The oar ✓	Åra	Noun	El remo es muy importante en la navegación.	The oar is very important in navigation.	Fun fact: El remo is commonly used in rowing sports and recreational boating.	Noun
El peso	The weight ✓	Vikten	Noun	El peso es importante en la construcción.	The weight is important in construction.	El peso is often used in contexts related to measurement and engineering in Spanish.	Noun
Hágamelo saber	Let me know ✓	Låt mig veta	Phrase	Si necesitas ayuda, hágamelo saber.	If you need help, let me know.	Hágamelo saber is commonly used to express willingness to assist someone.	Phrase
A medida de	Tailored/in proportion to ✓	Skräddarsydd/efter behov	Phrase	El vestido fue hecho a medida de las preferencias de la cliente.	The dress was made tailored to the clients preferences.	A medida de is often used to express customization or suitability in various contexts.	Phrase
A medida que	As long as ✓	Så länge som	Conjunction/subjunction	A medida que crecemos, aprendemos.	As long as we grow, we learn.	A medida que is commonly used to indicate a gradual change or progression in Spanish.	Conjunction/subjunction
Hasta el más sabio se equivoca	Even the wisest make mistakes ✓	Även den visaste gör misstag	Phrase	Hasta el más sabio se equivoca a veces.	Even the wisest makes mistakes sometimes.	This phrase is often used to remind people that no one is infallible.	Phrase
La antorcha	The torch ✓	Facklan	Noun	La antorcha ilumina la habitación.	The torch lights up the room.	Fun fact: La antorcha is often used symbolically in literature to represent knowledge and enlightenment.	Noun
El gusto	The taste/preference ✓	Smaken	Noun	El gusto es subjetivo.	The taste is subjective.	El gusto can refer to personal preferences, especially in art and food.	Noun
Depilar los piernas	Waxing the legs ✓	Vaxa benen	Phrase	Es común depilar los piernas antes del verano.	It is common to wax the legs before summer.	Depilar los piernas is often associated with beauty and personal grooming in many cultures.	Phrase
Peludo	Furry ✓	Tassig	Adjective	El perro es peludo.	The dog is furry.	Peludo can also describe a person with lots of hair, not just animals.	Adjective
¿Como coño?	How the fuck? ✓	Hur fan?	Phrase	¿Cómo coño se supone que voy a hacer esto?	How the fuck am I supposed to do this?	¿Cómo coño? is often used in Spanish to express frustration or disbelief.	Phrase
Fluyar	Flow ✓	Flöda	Verb	El agua fluyar suavemente por el río.	The water flows gently in the river.	Fluyar is often used in contexts related to natural elements like water or air.	Verb
El curro	The job ✓	Jobbet	Noun	El curro es muy interesante.	The job is very interesting.	El curro is a colloquial term used in Spain, often referring to work or a job in a casual context.	Noun
Apretar	Squeeze ✓	Kram	Phrase	Voy a apretar el limón para sacar el jugo.	I am going to squeeze the lemon to extract the juice.	Apretar is commonly used in both literal and figurative contexts in Spanish, such as squeezing a fruit or putting pressure on a situation.	Phrase
Porque bien chismoso que soy	Because i am a big gossip ✓	För att jag är en stor skvallerbytta	Conjunction/subjunction	Me dicen que soy popular, porque bien chismoso que soy.	They tell me I am popular, because I am a big gossip.	The phrase is often used humorously in conversations about someones reputation for sharing news.	Conjunction/subjunction
De moda	Fashionable ✓	Modig	Adjective	La ropa de esta temporada está de moda.	The clothing of this season is fashionable.	De moda is commonly used in fashion contexts to describe trends that are currently popular.	Adjective
La apuesta	The bet ✓	Insatsen	Noun	La apuesta fue emocionante.	The bet was exciting.	Fun fact: La apuesta is commonly used in gambling contexts in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
¿No por?	Not why? ✓	Inte varför?	Phrase	¿No por lo que hiciste?	Not for what you did?	The phrase ¿No por? is often used to question the reasoning behind a decision or action in casual conversations.	Phrase
¿Lo pillas?	Do you get it? ✓	Fattar du?	Phrase	El profesor explicó la lección, ¿lo pillas?	The teacher explained the lesson, do you get it?	¿Lo pillas? is often used informally among friends to check understanding.	Phrase
Menos mal	Thank goodness ✓	Tack och lov	Interjection	Menos mal que llegué a tiempo	Thank goodness I arrived on time	Menos mal is often used to express relief in situations where something unfortunate could have happened.	Interjection
Sensiblono	Sensitive ✓	Känslig	Adjective	Ella es muy sensiblona y se afecta fácilmente por las críticas.	She is very sensitive and gets easily affected by criticism.	The term sensiblono can be used to describe someone who is emotionally sensitive, often in a gentle or caring way.	Adjective
La cubata	The rum and coke ✓	Den rum och cola	Noun	Me gusta pedir la cubata en las fiestas.	I like to order the rum and coke at parties.	La cubata is a popular drink in Spain, often enjoyed at social gatherings.	Noun
El brujo	The sorcerer ✓	Sorceraren	Noun	El brujo realizó un hechizo poderoso.	The sorcerer performed a powerful spell.	In some cultures, El brujo is seen as a figure of wisdom and mystery, often connected to traditional healing practices.	Noun
Ahorita	Right now (latam) ✓	Just nu	Adverb	Voy a comer ahorita.	I am going to eat right now.	In some Latin American countries, ahorita can imply a more flexible timeframe, sometimes meaning soon rather than right now.	Adverb
Tocar la puerta	Knock on the door ✓	Knacka på dörren	Phrase	Voy a tocar la puerta.	I am going to knock on the door.	The phrase tocar la puerta is often used to indicate both physical knocking and the act of announcing oneself before entering.	Phrase
Implicando	Involving ✓	Involverande	Adjective	El proyecto está implicando a todas las partes interesadas.	The project is involving all stakeholders.	Implicando is commonly used in contexts where participation or association is emphasized.	Adjective
¿Me lo puedes recordar?	Can you remind me ✓	Kan du påminna mig?	Phrase	¿Me lo puedes recordar?	Can you remind me?	¿Me lo puedes recordar? is often used when someone wants to ensure they dont forget an important task or event.	Phrase
Hacer su mejor fuerza	Do your best ✓	Gör ditt bästa	Phrase	Es importante hacer su mejor fuerza en los exámenes.	Its important to do your best in exams.	Hacer su mejor fuerza is often used to encourage someone to put forth their best effort.	Phrase
El chisme	The gossip ✓	Skvaller	Noun	El chisme se propaga rápidamente en la oficina.	The gossip spreads quickly in the office.	El chisme is commonly used in Spanish-speaking cultures to describe both juicy and unverified information.	Noun
Volverse	To become ✓	Att bli	Verb	Ella se volvió médica.	She became a doctor.	Volverse is often used to indicate a significant change or transformation in someones life.	Verb
La ternura	Tenderness ✓	Den ömheten	Noun	La ternura es un sentimiento hermoso.	The tenderness is a beautiful feeling.	La ternura often expresses gentle emotions in literature and art.	Noun
Parar de	Stop (with) ✓	Sluta med	Phrase	Para de comer	Stop eating	The phrase Parar de is commonly used in everyday conversation to indicate stopping an activity.	Phrase
Marearse	Feel dizzy ✓	Att må illa	Verb	Me mareé después de dar vueltas rápidamente.	I felt dizzy after spinning around quickly.	The verb marearse is often used in contexts related to motion sickness or feeling faint.	Verb
Me viene	It comes to me ✓	Det kommer till mig	Phrase	Me viene una idea	An idea comes to me	In casual conversation, Me viene can express spontaneous thoughts or inspirations.	Phrase
Apretarse el cinturón	Tighten your belt	Strama åt budgeten/skärpa sig (ofta ekonomiskt) ✓	Phrase	Este mes, tenemos que apretarnos el cinturón para ahorrar dinero.	This month, we need to tighten our belts to save money.	Fun fact: Apretarse el cinturón is commonly used in Spain to refer to budgeting or spending less during tough financial times.	Phrase
Callado	Reserved ✓	Tystlåten	Adjective	Él es muy callado en las reuniones.	He is very reserved in meetings.	Callado is often used to describe someone who prefers listening over speaking.	Adjective
No tener muchas luces	Not having many lights ✓	Inte ha många lampor	Phrase	No tener muchas luces es un dicho que se usa para describir a alguien que no es muy inteligente.	Not having many lights is an expression used to describe someone who isnt very bright.	This phrase is often used informally in Spain to humorously comment on someones lack of common sense or awareness.	Phrase
Colocar	To place ✓	Att placera	Verb	Voy a colocar el libro en la mesa.	I am going to place the book on the table.	Colocar is often used in contexts involving arranging or positioning objects.	Verb
Girar en un sentido	Turn in one direction ✓	Vrid i en riktning	Phrase	Es importante girar en un sentido al tomar la curva.	It is important to turn in one direction when turning the corner.	Fun fact: Girar en un sentido can refer to physical movements or metaphorical directions in discussions.	Phrase
Dar vueltas	To go around ✓	Snurra	Phrase	Ella empezó a dar vueltas en la pista.	She started to go around on the track.	The expression dar vueltas can also imply overthinking or being indecisive in a situation.	Phrase
La helíce	The propeller ✓	Propellern	Noun	La helíce gira rápidamente.	The propeller spins quickly.	La helíce is often used in nautical contexts, referring to the part of a boat or aircraft that provides thrust.	Noun
Radicar	To root ✓	Att rota	Verb	Es importante que nuestras tradiciones radican en nuestra cultura.	It is important that our traditions root in our culture.	The verb radicar is often used in the context of establishing deep connections, especially in cultural discussions.	Verb
Mira...	Look... ✓	Titta...	Interjection	Mira el cielo.	Look at the sky.	Mira... is often used to draw attention to something interesting or important.	Interjection
La barra de fuego/El ferrocerio	The fire starter	Eldstålet ✓	Noun	La barra de fuego es útil para encender una fogata.	The fire starter is useful for lighting a campfire.	La barra de fuego/El ferrocerio is often used by campers and survivalists for its reliability in creating sparks.	Noun
El picaporte	The door handle	Dörrhandtaget ✓	Noun	El picaporte está roto.	The door handle is broken.	El picaporte is commonly used in Spain to refer specifically to the handle or latch used to open doors.	Noun
El chicle	The chewing gum	Tuggummit ✓	Noun	El chicle es muy sabroso.	The chewing gum is very tasty.	El chicle is often used in Spanish-speaking countries to refer to various types of chewing gum, showcasing its importance in popular culture.	Noun
La espada	The sword	Svärdet ✓	Noun	La espada es afilada.	The sword is sharp.	La espada has been a symbol of power and honor throughout history.	Noun
El cangrejo	The crab	Krabban ✓	Noun	El cangrejo camina de lado.	The crab walks sideways.	El cangrejo is commonly used to refer to various species of crabs in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Noun
El despertador	The alarm clock	Väckarklockan ✓	Noun	El despertador suena a las siete.	The alarm clock rings at seven.	El despertador is commonly used in Spanish-speaking cultures to denote any type of alarm clock, regardless of its design or technology.	Noun
La bobada	Nonsense	Nonsens ✓	Noun	No te preocupes por la bobada.	Dont worry about the nonsense.	La bobada is often used in everyday conversations to dismiss trivial concerns in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Noun
La sandía	The watermelon	Vattenmelonen ✓	Noun	La sandía es deliciosa.	The watermelon is delicious.	In Spain, la sandía is a popular summer fruit enjoyed in many varieties and recipes.	Noun
Botellón	Bottle party	Dryckessesion utomhus (krök) ✓	Phrase	El botellón es una actividad muy popular entre los jóvenes.	The botellón is a very popular activity among young people.	Botellón often takes place in public spaces and is a cultural phenomenon in Spain.	Phrase
La morriña	The nostalgia	Hemlängtan ✓	Noun	Siento la morriña cuando estoy lejos de casa.	I feel the nostalgia when I am away from home.	La morriña is a term often used in Galician culture to express deep emotional longing for ones homeland.	Noun
Un papichulo	An attractive guy	En man som tror han är väldigt snygg ✓	Phrase	Él se mira al espejo y dice que es un papichulo.	He looks in the mirror and says he is an attractive guy.	Un papichulo is often used humorously to describe someone overly confident about their looks.	Phrase
La zaragata	Chaos	Oordning, röra, bråk ✓	Phrase	La zaragata en la fiesta fue increíble.	The commotion at the party was incredible.	La zaragata is often used in informal contexts to describe noisy and chaotic situations.	Phrase
Cachondo, corneo, caliente	Cachondo	Kåt ✓	Adjective	Él estaba cachondo después de la película.	He was aroused after the movie.	The words cachondo and caliente can refer to sexual excitement, while corneo is more specific to infidelity or being a cuckold.	Adjective
El buque	The vessel	Skeppet ✓	Noun	El buque navega por el océano.	The vessel sails across the ocean.	El buque is often used in maritime contexts to refer to larger ships or vessels.	Noun
El buqué	The bouquet	(blom) buketten ✓	Noun	El buqué es hermoso.	The bouquet is beautiful.	El buqué refers to an arrangement of flowers and is commonly used in events like weddings.	Noun
El obispo	The bishop	Biskopen (också en typ av fisk) ✓	Noun	El obispo celebra la misa cada domingo.	The bishop celebrates mass every Sunday.	Fun fact: El obispo can also refer to a type of bishop fish in some contexts.	Noun
Cada muerte de obispo	Once in a blue moon ✓	En blå måne	Phrase	Solo visito a mi abuela cada muerte de obispo.	I only visit my grandmother once in a blue moon.	The phrase cada muerte de obispo is often used to describe something that happens very rarely.	Phrase
Atravesar	Go through, cross, pierce ✓	Att korsa	Verb	Él va a atravesar el puente.	He is going to cross the bridge.	Fun fact: Atravesar can also imply overcoming obstacles, not just physical barriers.	Verb
La llovizna	Drizzle / misty rain ✓	Dugg	Noun	La llovizna es suave y agradable.	The drizzle is gentle and pleasant.	La llovizna is often used to describe light rain that creates a cozy atmosphere.	Noun
Tierno	Tender, soft / loving, affectionate ✓	Öm	Adjective	El cachorro es muy tierno.	The puppy is very tender.	Tierno is often used to describe not only animals but also affectionate moments between people.	Adjective
Salpicado (de)	Splashed, splattered (paint) / sprinkled ✓	Spritad, stänkt	Adjective	La pared está salpicada de pintura.	The wall is splashed with paint.	Salpicado (de) can also describe flavors, such as food sprinkled with spices.	Adjective
Cagada de pájaros	Bird droppings	Fågelbajs ✓	Phrase	La cagada de pájaros caía sobre el coche.	The bird droppings fell on the car.	The phrase Cagada de pájaros is often used humorously to refer to an unexpected mess.	Phrase
Cagarla bien cagada	You made a right mess of that, you really screwed that up ✓	Du gjorde verkligen en röra av det	Phrase	¡Cagarla bien cagada! No deberías haber hecho eso	You really messed that up! You shouldnt have done that	The phrase Cagarla bien cagada is often used informally to express frustration over a mistake.	Phrase
Qué cagada	What a fuck up, you really fucked that up / what terrible luck! ✓	Vilken jävla miss	Interjection	Cuando se me rompió el teléfono, pensé: Qué cagada.	When my phone broke, I thought: What a fuck up.	Qué cagada is often used in everyday conversations to express frustration or disappointment.	Interjection
Evocar	To recall, remember ✓	Att erinra	Verb	El aroma de las flores puede evocar recuerdos de la infancia.	The scent of flowers can evoke memories of childhood.	Evocar is commonly used in literature and poetry to describe the act of bringing memories or emotions to mind.	Verb
El pormenor	The detail	Detaljen, den lilla detaljen ✓	Noun	El pormenor es importante en la planificación.	The detail is important in the planning.	El pormenor is often used in discussions to emphasize that small details can have significant impacts.	Noun
Ingrato	Ungrateful / thankless, unpleasant ✓	Otacksam	Adjective	El hijo fue ingrato con su madre.	The son was ungrateful to his mother.	Ingrato can be used to describe someone who does not show appreciation for kindness or help received.	Adjective
El estaño	Tin	Tenn (metall) ✓	Noun	El estaño es un metal blando.	The tin is a soft metal.	El estaño is often used in metal alloys and is essential in soldering.	Noun
El papel de estaño	Aluminum foil	Aluminiumfolie ✓	Noun	El papel de estaño se usa para cubrir alimentos.	The aluminum foil is used to cover food.	Fun fact: El papel de estaño is commonly used in kitchens worldwide for wrapping and preserving food.	Noun
Tropezar	Stumble, trip, bump into ✓	Att snubbla	Verb	Yo voy a tropezar con la piedra.	I am going to stumble over the stone.	Tropezar can also imply figuratively bumping into someone or something, not just physically.	Verb
El almendro	The almond tree	Mandelträdet ✓	Noun	El almendro da flores en primavera.	The almond tree blooms in spring.	Fun fact: El almendro is often associated with the arrival of spring in many cultures.	Noun
Certero	Accurate ✓	Korrekt	Adjective	Su respuesta fue certera.	Your answer was accurate.	Certero is often used in contexts where precision and correctness are valued, such as in academic or scientific discussions.	Adjective
El augurio, El presagio	Omen	Omen, tecken ✓	Noun	El augurio fue muy claro.	The omen was very clear.	In literature, el augurio often signifies foreshadowing of events.	Noun
Augurio aciago	Bad omen	Dåligt omen, dåligt tecken ✓	Phrase	El cielo estaba nublado, y todos pensaron que era un augurio aciago.	The sky was cloudy, and everyone thought it was a bad omen.	The phrase augurio aciago is often used in literature to denote a foreboding sense of doom.	Phrase
Aciago	Fateful, tragic ✓	Ödesdiger	Adjective	El día aciago cambió nuestras vidas para siempre.	The fateful day changed our lives forever.	Aciago is often used in literature and poetry to evoke a sense of ominous destiny.	Adjective
Reconocer	Recognize ✓	Att känna igen	Verb	Yo reconozco a mis amigos.	I recognize my friends.	Reconocer can also mean to acknowledge, adding nuance to its usage.	Verb
¿Sabes qué?	You know what? ✓	Vet du vad?	Phrase	¿Sabes qué? tengo una sorpresa para ti.	You know what? I have a surprise for you.	¿Sabes qué? is often used to introduce surprising or exciting news.	Phrase
El suspiro	The sigh ✓	Den suck	Noun	El suspiro de alivio fue audible.	The sigh of relief was audible.	El suspiro is often used to express a moment of emotional release or relief in Spanish literature.	Noun
El gramófono	The gramophone ✓	Gramofonen	Noun	El gramófono reproduce música antigua.	The gramophone plays old music.	El gramófono was a groundbreaking invention that revolutionized the way people listened to music in the late 19th century.	Noun
La respiración	The breath ✓	Andningen	Phrase	La respiración es esencial para la vida.	The breath is essential for life.	La respiración is often used in discussions about health and wellness.	Phrase
Avanzar rápido	To advance quickly	Att spola fram ✓	Verb	Necesitamos avanzar rápido para terminar a tiempo.	We need to advance quickly to finish on time.	Avanzar rápido is often used in everyday situations when discussing progress or urgency.	Verb
Rebobinar	To rewind	Att spola tillbaka ✓	Verb	Necesitamos rebobinar la cinta.	We need to rewind the tape.	Fun fact: Rebobinar is often used in the context of VHS tapes and music cassettes.	Verb
El zumbido	The buzz ✓	Surr	Noun	El zumbido de las abejas es muy relajante.	The buzz of the bees is very relaxing.	El zumbido often describes sounds that are soothing or constant, like nature sounds.	Noun
El chaleco salvavidas	The life jacket ✓	Flytvästen	Noun	El chaleco salvavidas es esencial para la seguridad en el agua.	The life jacket is essential for safety in the water.	Fun fact: El chaleco salvavidas is not only used in boating but also in various water sports for safety.	Noun
El cable	The cable	Kabeln ✓	Noun	El cable está roto.	The cable is broken.	Fun fact: El cable is commonly used in technology discussions referring to both physical connectors and understanding wiring setups.	Noun
El destornillador	The screwdriver	Skruvmejseln ✓	Noun	El destornillador es muy útil para arreglar cosas.	The screwdriver is very useful for fixing things.	A fun fact is that destornillador comes from tornillo, meaning screw.	Noun
Deliberar sobre una decisión	Deliberate on a decision	Att överlägga ett beslut ✓	Phrase	Es importante deliberar sobre una decisión antes de actuar.	It is important to deliberate on a decision before acting.	Deliberar sobre una decisión is often used in formal contexts, such as meetings or discussions where careful thought is needed.	Phrase
Doblar	To fold	Att vika ✓	Verb	Voy a doblar la camisa.	I am going to fold the shirt.	In Spanish, doblar can also mean to turn, such as turning a corner.	Verb
El circo	The circus ✓	Cirkusen	Noun	El circo es muy divertido.	The circus is very fun.	El circo is often associated with entertainment and performances in many cultures.	Noun
Un traje de tres piezas	A three-piece suit ✓	En kostym i tre delar	Phrase	Él compró un traje de tres piezas para la boda.	He bought a three-piece suit for the wedding.	Un traje de tres piezas is often considered a symbol of formal elegance in many cultures.	Phrase
Quemaduras de segundo grado	Second degree burns ✓	Andra gradens brännskador	Phrase	Las quemaduras de segundo grado requieren atención médica.	Second degree burns require medical attention.	Quemaduras de segundo grado are often more painful than first degree burns and can take weeks to heal.	Phrase
Estafar a alguien	To scam someone ✓	Att bedra någon	Verb	El estafador intentó estafar a alguien.	The scammer tried to scam someone.	Fun fact: Estafar a alguien is often used in contexts involving online fraud or con artist schemes.	Verb
Me quedo tiesa	I stay stiff ✓	Jag blir stel	Phrase	Cuando veo una película de terror, me quedo tiesa.	When I watch a horror movie, I stay stiff.	The phrase me quedo tiesa is often used to describe a reaction of shock or fear.	Phrase
De por vida	For life ✓	För livet	Phrase	Quiero ser tu amigo de por vida.	I want to be your friend for life.	The phrase De por vida emphasizes a strong, enduring commitment in relationships or promises.	Phrase
La bruja	The witch ✓	Häxan	Noun	La bruja vuela por la noche.	The witch flies at night.	La bruja is often associated with Halloween and folklore in various cultures.	Noun
Cómo de verdad	Like for real ✓	Som verkligen	Phrase	¿Cómo de verdad puedes comer tanto?	How for real can you eat so much?	The phrase Cómo de verdad is often used in casual conversations to express disbelief or surprise.	Phrase
La corteza	The bark ✓	Barken	Noun	La corteza del árbol es rugosa.	The bark of the tree is rough.	Fun fact: La corteza can also refer to the outer layer of various fruits, like citrus fruits.	Noun
Escamosa	Scaly ✓	Fjällande	Adjective	La piel del lagarto es escamosa.	The lizards skin is scaly.	The term escamosa is often used in biology to describe textures of certain animals and plants.	Adjective
La vitrina	The showcase ✓	Vitrinen	Noun	La vitrina está llena de libros.	The showcase is full of books.	La vitrina is often used in museums and shops to display valuable items.	Noun
La tomadera	The takeover ✓	Övertagandet	Noun	La tomadera fue un éxito rotundo.	The takeover was a resounding success.	La tomadera is often used in political contexts to refer to a significant change in power or control.	Noun
Sordo	Deaf ✓	Döv	Adjective	El perro es sordo.	The dog is deaf.	In Spanish, sordo can also be used metaphorically to describe someone who is unresponsive to advice or information.	Adjective
Me da gripe	I get the flu ✓	Jag får influensa	Phrase	Cuando hace mucho frío, me da gripe.	When its very cold, I get the flu.	The phrase Me da gripe is often used to express susceptibility to colds and flu during the chilly months.	Phrase
Suficiente	Enough ✓	Tillräcklig	Adjective	Tengo suficiente comida para todos.	I have enough food for everyone.	Suficiente is used to indicate an adequate quantity or degree in various contexts, making it quite versatile in everyday conversations.	Adjective
Ya sea...	"Whether it&#x27;s... ✓"	Om det så är...	Conjunction/subjunction	Debemos expandirnos, ya sea en EMEA o América.	We must expand, whether in EMEA or America.	Ya sea... is often used in Spanish to present two or more alternatives or options.	Conjunction/subjunction
El tejón	The badger ✓	Grävlingen	Noun	El tejón vive en los bosques.	The badger lives in the woods.	El tejón is commonly used in wildlife contexts to refer to this nocturnal animal.	Noun
Hospedar	Accommodate ✓	Rumän	Phrase	Voy a hospedar a mis amigos este fin de semana.	I am going to accommodate my friends this weekend.	Hospedar is commonly used in Spanish-speaking countries to refer to providing someone with lodging or a place to stay.	Phrase
Actuar de manera ejemplar	Act in an exemplary manner ✓	Agera på ett exemplariskt sätt	Phrase	Debemos actuar de manera ejemplar en todas las situaciones.	We must act in an exemplary manner in all situations.	The phrase Actuar de manera ejemplar is often used in contexts related to ethics and moral behavior.	Phrase
Dar lo mejor de mi mismo	Give my best ✓	Ge det bästa av mig	Phrase	Siempre trato de dar lo mejor de mi mismo en cada proyecto.	I always try to give my best in every project.	Fun fact: Dar lo mejor de mi mismo is often used to express commitment and effort in personal and professional endeavors.	Phrase
El hechizo	The spell ✓	Besvärjelsen	Noun	El hechizo fue poderoso.	The spell was powerful.	El hechizo is often used in fantasy literature to describe magical transformations or effects.	Noun
Comportarse	To behave ✓	Att bete sig	Verb	Los niños deben comportarse en clase.	The children must behave in class.	Comportarse is often used in educational contexts to emphasize good behavior.	Verb
De pronto	Suddenly (3) ✓	Plötsligt	Adverb	De pronto, comenzó a llover.	Suddenly, it started to rain.	De pronto is commonly used to indicate a sudden change or event in a narrative.	Adverb
Me sale mal	It turns out bad for me (when i do it) ✓	Det går dåligt för mig	Phrase	Cuando intento cocinar, me sale mal.	When I try to cook, it turns out bad for me.	Me sale mal can be used in various contexts to express frustration or disappointment in activities and is commonly used in everyday conversations in Spain.	Phrase
Rendirse	To surrender ✓	Att ge upp	Verb	No voy a rendirme nunca.	I will never surrender.	Rendirse is often used in both literal and metaphorical contexts, symbolizing both giving up in a fight and accepting defeat in various situations.	Verb
Sucia	Dirty ✓	Skitig	Adjective	La casa está sucia.	The house is dirty.	Sucia can describe both physical dirtiness and metaphorical moral corruption.	Adjective
El tocadisco	The record player ✓	Spelaren	Noun	El tocadisco está en la sala.	The record player is in the living room.	El tocadisco is commonly used to refer to vinyl record players in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
Imprimir	To print ✓	Att skriva ut	Verb	Voy a imprimir el documento.	I am going to print the document.	Imprimir is commonly used in everyday contexts, especially in workplaces and schools.	Verb
El dibujo animado	The cartoon ✓	Teckningen	Noun	Me gusta ver el dibujo animado por la tarde.	I like to watch the cartoon in the afternoon.	El dibujo animado often refers to animated series or films aimed at children and has a significant cultural impact in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
Iba a...	I was going to... ✓	Jag skulle	Phrase	Iba a comer pizza	I was going to eat pizza	The phrase Iba a... is often used to express intentions or plans that were not fulfilled.	Phrase
Ondulado	Curly ✓	Lockig	Adjective	Ella tiene el cabello ondulado.	She has curly hair.	Ondulado can refer to both hair texture and shapes, such as waves.	Adjective
La mancha	The stain ✓	Fläcken	Noun	La mancha en la camisa es difícil de quitar.	The stain on the shirt is hard to remove.	La mancha is often used metaphorically in literature to denote a mark of shame or guilt.	Noun
Se da por hecho	It is taken for granted ✓	Det tas för givet	Phrase	En reunión, se da por hecho que todos participarán.	In a meeting, it is taken for granted that everyone will participate.	Se da por hecho is commonly used in conversational Spanish to express assumptions or expectations.	Phrase
El sicario	The hitman ✓	Lönnmördaren	Noun	El sicario trabaja en la sombra.	The hitman works in the shadows.	El sicario is often used in literature and film to portray a mysterious and dangerous character.	Noun
Devolver un vacile	Return a joke ✓	Skämta tillbaka	Phrase	Hoy le voy a devolver un vacile a mi amigo.	Today Im going to return a joke to my friend.	Devolver un vacile is commonly used in Spain among friends to describe playful teasing.	Phrase
El gilipollas	The idiot ✓	Idioten	Noun	El gilipollas se puso a discutir sin razón.	The idiot started arguing for no reason.	El gilipollas is often used humorously in everyday Spanish to describe someone acting foolishly.	Noun
El placer	The pleasure ✓	Nöjet	Noun	El placer es disfrutar de la vida.	The pleasure is to enjoy life.	El placer is often used to express joy and enjoyment in various contexts, from daily activities to deeper experiences.	Noun
Cepillarse los dientes	Brush your teeth ✓	Borsta tänderna	Phrase	Es importante cepillarse los dientes dos veces al día.	It is important to brush your teeth twice a day.	Fun fact: Cepillarse los dientes is a common phrase used to emphasize dental hygiene in Spanish-speaking cultures.	Phrase
Comprensible	Understandable ✓	Förståelig	Adjective	El libro es comprensible.	The book is understandable.	Comprensible is often used in educational contexts to describe materials or explanations that are easy to grasp.	Adjective
La tanga	The thong ✓	Stringtrosa	Noun	¡Las tangas son para el verano!	The thongs are for the summer!	Fun fact: La tanga is often considered a daring choice in swimwear and lingerie.	Noun
El fondo	The background ✓	Bakgrunden	Noun	El fondo de la imagen es muy colorido.	The background of the image is very colorful.	El fondo can refer to various contexts, including art and finance, highlighting its versatility in the Spanish language.	Noun
Repasar	To review ✓	Att se över	Verb	Voy a repasar mis notas para el examen.	I am going to review my notes for the exam.	Repasar is commonly used in academic contexts, especially before tests.	Verb
Selvático	Wild ✓	Vild	Adjective	El bosque es muy selvático.	The forest is very wild.	Selvático often describes untamed nature, commonly used in environmental contexts.	Adjective
La paliza	The beating ✓	Den misshandeln	Noun	El boxeador recibió la paliza en el último round.	The boxer received the beating in the last round.	La paliza is often used in both literal and figurative contexts in Spanish, indicating a severe defeat or punishment.	Noun
La entrega	The delivery ✓	Leveransen	Noun	La entrega fue puntual.	The delivery was on time.	La entrega can refer not only to physical deliveries but also to the delivery of a speech or presentation in Spanish.	Noun
Resolverse	To resolve	Att lösa sig ✓	Verb	El problema se resolverá pronto.	The problem will resolve itself soon.	Resolverse is often used to indicate that a situation will sort itself out without external intervention.	Verb
Extrañar	To miss	Att sakna ✓	Verb	Yo extraño mucho a mi familia.	I miss my family a lot.	In many Latin American countries, extrañar is commonly used to express longing or missing someone, while in Spain, echar de menos is more frequently used.	Verb
Estoy flipando	Im flipping out	Jag får flipp ✓	Phrase	Estoy flipando con la película	Im flipping out over the movie	Estoy flipando is often used to express amazement or surprise in casual conversations.	Phrase
Hazme caso	Hear me out	Lyssna på mig ✓	Phrase	Hazme caso, por favor.	Listen to me, please.	Hazme caso is often used to emphasize the importance of paying attention to someones advice or request.	Phrase
Cotizar	To quote ✓	Att citera	Verb	Necesito cotizar el precio de este producto.	I need to quote the price of this product.	In Spanish, cotizar is often used in business contexts when discussing prices or estimates.	Verb
Genuinamente	Genuinely	Genuint ✓	Adjective	Ella es genuinamente amable.	She is genuinely kind.	Genuinamente is often used to emphasize authenticity or sincerity in someones character.	Adjective
El asesor	The advisor	Rådgivaren ✓	Noun	El asesor me dio buenos consejos.	The advisor gave me good advice.	El asesor is commonly used in professional contexts, especially in business and finance.	Noun
Abordar	To tackle	Att tackla ✓	Verb	Debemos abordar el problema juntos.	We must tackle the problem together.	Abordar is commonly used in discussions about issues that need to be addressed.	Verb
El botón	The button	Knappen	Noun	El botón está roto.	The button is broken.	El botón is commonly used in various contexts, such as technology and clothing, to refer to a physical button.	Noun
Por muy ... que ser	No importa por muy difícil que sea, lo lograré.	Hur ... än må vara ✓	Conjunction/subjunction	No importa por muy complicado que sea, aún puedo aprenderlo.	It doesn’t matter how complicated it may be, I can still learn it.	The phrase is often used to express determination despite challenges.	Conjunction/subjunction
El gasto	The expense ✓	Utgiften	Noun	El gasto fue mayor de lo esperado.	The expense was higher than expected.	El gasto is often used in financial contexts to discuss costs or expenditures.	Noun
Celoso	Envious ✓	Avundsjuk	Adjective	Juan está celoso de los éxitos de su amigo.	Juan is envious of his friends successes.	Celoso can describe someone who is protective in a possessive sense.	Adjective
Quitarse	To take off	Ta av sig (kläder) ✓	Verb	Ella se quita el abrigo antes de entrar.	She takes off her coat before entering.	Quitarse can also mean to remove oneself from a situation or to resign from a job.	Verb
El cobre	Copper	Koppar (metallen) ✓	Noun	El cobre es un buen conductor de electricidad.	The copper is a good conductor of electricity.	El cobre also refers to copper in terms of its economic value or as a color in art.	Noun
La parranda	The party	Parraden / fest, utgång (informellt) ✓	Noun	Vamos a una parranda este sábado.	We are going to the party this Saturday.	La parranda usually refers to a lively gathering or celebration, often with music and dancing.	Noun
Destazar	To butcher, cut into pieces ✓	Att destillera	Verb	Voy a destazar la carne para hacer un guiso.	I am going to butcher the meat to make a stew.	Destazar can also refer to disassembling or breaking down non-literal items, like arguments or projects.	Verb
Soñoliento	Sleepy	Sömnig ✓	Adjective	Estoy tan soñoliento que no puedo concentrarme.	I am so sleepy that I cant concentrate.	Soñoliento can describe a state of being drowsy or lethargic.	Adjective
Radiante	Radiant, splendid, joyful ✓	Strålande	Adjective	El sol está radiante hoy.	The sun is radiant today.	Radiante could be used to describe a persons cheerful demeanor or bright smile.	Adjective
La brisa (de mar)	The sea breeze	(havs) bris ✓	Noun	La brisa de mar es refrescante.	The sea breeze is refreshing.	La brisa de mar evokes a sense of tranquility or be used in poetry to convey moods.	Noun
Brisa de aire fresco	Breath of fresh air ✓	En bris av fräsch luft	Phrase	Hoy disfruté de una brisa de aire fresco en el parque.	Today I enjoyed a breath of fresh air in the park.	Brisa de aire fresco can also be used metaphorically to describe a new idea or change.	Phrase
Apenas	Barely, hardly / as soon as ✓	Knappt	Adverb	Apenas llegué a tiempo a la reunión.	I barely arrived on time to the meeting.	Apenas could also mean as soon as.	Adverb
Apenas si	Hardly ✓	Knappast	Adverb	Apenas si llegamos a tiempo	We hardly arrived on time	The phrase Apenas si could also imply a sense of barely or hardly achieving something.	Adverb
El alboroto	The racket, fuss, commotion ✓	Det oväsendet	Noun	El alboroto en la fiesta fue insoportable.	The racket at the party was unbearable.	El alboroto can also refer to a noisy argument or disturbance.	Noun
La campana	The bell  ✓	Klockan	Noun	La campana suena a las tres.	The bell rings at three.	La campana can refer to a physical bell or symbolize an announcement or signal.	Noun
Tocar a rebato	Sound the alarm (colloquial) ✓	Larma	Phrase	Cuando escuchamos disparos, todos comenzaron a tocar a rebato.	When we heard gunshots, everyone began to sound the alarm.	Tocar a rebato can also mean to awaken or alert people quickly.	Phrase
Soltar la sopa	To spill the tea (skvaller) ✓	Spilla teet	Phrase	Juan siempre quiere soltar la sopa cuando hay chismes.	Juan always wants to spill the tea when there are rumors.	Soltar la sopa can also refer to revealing secret information, not just gossip.	Phrase
Soltar	Let go, drop / let loose, set free / loose, leak ✓	Att släppa	Verb	Voy a soltar el globo.	I am going to let go of the balloon.	Soltar is also used to mean to release or set free, not just physically but also in contexts like letting go of emotions.	Verb
El almidón	The starch	Stärkelsen ✓	Noun	El almidón se utiliza en la cocina para espesar salsas.	The starch is used in cooking to thicken sauces.	El almidón is also used to refer to different types of starches derived from various sources like potatoes or corn.	Noun
El atuendo	The attire, dress ✓	Klädsel	Noun	El atuendo es muy elegante.	The attire is very elegant.	El atuendo is also used to refer to a particular style or fashion choice in different contexts.	Noun
De no haber sido por...	If it hadnt been for...	Om det inte hade varit för... ✓	Phrase	De no haber sido por la lluvia, habríamos hecho un picnic.	If it hadnt been for the rain, we would have had a picnic.	De no haber sido por... is often used to express gratitude or to highlight the importance of a specific factor in an outcome.	Phrase
Botas de montar	The riding boots	Ridstövlar ✓	Noun	Me compré unas botas de montar nuevas.	I bought a new pair of riding boots.	Botas de montar also refers to riding boots used in equestrian sports.	Noun
La bala	The bullet ✓	Kulan	Noun	La bala es un objeto peligroso.	The bullet is a dangerous object.	La bala can also refer to a metaphorical bullet, like a critical decision or moment.	Noun
Los aperos	The implements	Verktygen (när det handlar om jordbruk) ✓	Noun	Los aperos son esenciales para el trabajo en el campo.	The implements are essential for work in the field.	Los aperos can also refer to tools used in various other contexts, not just agriculture.	Noun
Aplazar	To postpone	Att skjuta upp ✓	Verb	Voy a aplazar la reunión para la próxima semana.	I am going to postpone the meeting until next week.	Aplazar also means to delay or defer, depending on the context.	Verb
¡Oído cocina!	Listen up! ✓	Lyssna upp!	Interjection	¡Oído cocina! Vamos a empezar la cena.	Listen up! We are going to start dinner.	¡Oído cocina! is also used to mean I understand in conversational contexts.	Interjection
¡Abucheo!	Boo! ✓	Boo!	Interjection	El público gritó ¡Abucheo! cuando el jugador falló el penalti.	The crowd yelled ¡Abucheo! when the player missed the penalty.	¡Abucheo! can be used to express disapproval in various contexts, from sports to performances.	Interjection
Aparentar	To pretend ✓	Att låtsas	Verb	Ella aparenta estar feliz, pero en realidad se siente triste.	She pretends to be happy, but in reality she feels sad.	Aparentar could also mean to give an outward appearance or to show something that may not reflect the true nature.	Verb
Cuqui	Cute ✓	Söt	Adjective	Ese gatito es muy cuqui.	That kitten is very cute.	Cuqui can also describe someone as sweet or lovely, not just physically cute.	Adjective
De lado	Sideways ✓	På sidan	Adverb	El coche estaba estacionado de lado.	The car was parked sideways.	De lado is also used to describe a position or action thats not straight, like when leaning or turning.	Adverb
Dejar mal a una persona	To put a person in a bad light ✓	Att sätta en person i dålig dager	Phrase	Decir algo negativo sobre alguien puede dejar mal a una persona.	Saying something negative about someone can put a person in a bad light.	Dejar mal a una persona can also refer to making someone look foolish or incompetent.	Phrase
Dios lo bendiga	God bless you ✓	Gud välsigna dig	Phrase	Espero que todo te vaya bien, Dios lo bendiga	I hope everything goes well for you, God bless you	Dios lo bendiga can also be used as a farewell or to show goodwill.	Phrase
Distraer	To distract ✓	Distrahera	Phrase	Voy a distraer a mi hermana con un juego.	I am going to distract my sister with a game.	Distraer could imply diverting attention in various contexts, such as entertainment or conversation.	Phrase
El abogado	The lawyer ✓	Advokaten	Noun	El abogado trabaja en un bufete.	The lawyer works at a law firm.	El abogado could refer to a person who defends someones rights in legal matters.	Noun
El ahuevonado	An idiot ✓	Den idiot	Noun	No seas el ahuevonado que nadie quiere hablar contigo.	Dont be the idiot that nobody wants to talk to.	El ahuevonado also refers to someone acting foolishly or carelessly in various contexts.	Noun
El arancel	The tariff ✓	Tullen	Noun	El arancel afecta el precio de los productos importados.	The tariff affects the price of imported goods.	El arancel commonly refers to customs duties or fees imposed on goods crossing borders.	Noun
El cuarto	The room ✓	Rummet	Noun	El cuarto está limpio.	The room is clean.	El cuarto can refer to a physical room or be used in expressions like el cuarto de baño (the bathroom).	Noun
El entero	The whole ✓	Hela	Noun	El entero es necesario para entender el concepto.	The whole is necessary to understand the concept.	El entero can also refer to completeness or integrity in various contexts.	Noun
El manerismo	The mannerism ✓	Manierismen	Noun	El manerismo es un estilo artístico muy interesante.	The mannerism is a very interesting artistic style.	El manerismo can also refer to specific behaviors or traits that are overly stylized or artificial.	Noun
El monje	The monk ✓	Munken	Noun	El monje medita en silencio.	The monk meditates in silence.	El monje can also refer to various cultural representations in literature and film.	Noun
El pánico	The panic ✓	Paniken	Noun	El pánico se apoderó de todos en la sala.	The panic took over everyone in the room.	El pánico can refer to the feeling of anxiety or fear in various contexts.	Noun
El punto es que...	The point is... ✓	Poängen är att...	Phrase	El punto es que debemos ser responsables.	The point is that we must be responsible.	El punto es que... can be used to introduce a conclusion or key idea in a discussion.	Phrase
El rendimiento	The performance ✓	Prestationen	Noun	El rendimiento del equipo ha mejorado.	The performance of the team has improved.	El rendimiento can refer to performance in various contexts, such as sports, academics, or machinery.	Noun
El vinilo	The vinyl ✓	Vinylskivan	Noun	El vinilo es un objeto muy apreciado por los coleccionistas.	The vinyl is a highly valued item among collectors.	El vinilo can refer to the music genre or the medium used to play music.	Noun
Hoy por hoy	Today for today ✓	Idag för idag	Phrase	Hoy por hoy, la tecnología es esencial en nuestras vidas.	Today for today, technology is essential in our lives.	Hoy por hoy can also imply a sense of current reality or circumstances.	Phrase
La litera	The bunk bed ✓	Överslafen	Noun	Los niños duermen en la litera.	The children sleep in the bunk bed.	La litera can also refer to a sleeping arrangement in trains or hostels.	Noun
La paloma	The dove ✓	Duvan	Noun	La paloma vuela en el cielo.	The dove flies in the sky.	La paloma also refers to symbols of peace or be used in various idiomatic expressions.	Noun
La promesa	The promise ✓	Löftet	Noun	La promesa es importante para mantener la confianza.	The promise is important to maintain trust.	La promesa can also refer to a commitment or a vow in various contexts.	Noun
La vibra	The vibe ✓	The vibe	Noun	Me gusta la vibra de este lugar.	I like the vibe of this place.	La vibra can also refer to the general atmosphere or feeling in various contexts, such as music or social gatherings.	Noun
Me caen mal	"I don&#x27;t like them ✓"	Jag gillar dem inte	Phrase	Me caen mal esos chicos	I dont like those boys	Me caen mal could express dislike for things or situations, not just people.	Phrase
Mediante	Through ✓	Genom	Preposition	Mediante el esfuerzo logramos nuestros objetivos.	Through effort, we achieved our goals.	Mediante could be used in formal contexts to mean by means of.	Preposition
Molar tanto	Be cool ✓	Vara cool	Phrase	Me gusta mucho esta música, ¡mola tanto!	I really like this music, it is so cool!	Molar tanto could express excitement or approval in other contexts.	Phrase
No lo pillo	"I don&#x27;t get it ✓"	Jag fattar inte	Phrase	El profesor explicó la lección, pero yo no lo pillo.	The teacher explained the lesson, but I dont get it.	No lo pillo can also be used informally to express confusion about various topics, not just academic ones.	Phrase
Para ir ya	To go now ✓	För att gå nu	Phrase	Necesitamos salir temprano, para ir ya.	We need to leave early, to go now.	Para ir ya could imply urgency or a need to leave immediately.	Phrase
Poner el disfraz	To put on the costume ✓	Att sätta på sig kostymen	Phrase	Voy a poner el disfraz en la fiesta.	I am going to put on the costume at the party.	Poner el disfraz can also imply dressing up in a playful or festive context.	Phrase
Ponerse high	To get high ✓	Att bli hög	Phrase	Ayer decidí ponerme high con mis amigos.	Yesterday I decided to get high with my friends.	Ponerse high can also refer to feeling euphoric or excessively happy in informal contexts.	Phrase
Por medio de	Through ✓	Genom	Preposition	Por medio de la lluvia, llegamos a casa.	Through the rain, we arrived home.	Por medio de is also used to indicate a means or method for achieving something, not just physical pathways.	Preposition
Por mi mismo	By myself ✓	Jag lärde mig att laga mat på egen hand.	Phrase	Aprendí a cocinar por mi mismo.	I learned to cook by myself.	Por mi mismo emphasizes independence but can also refer to accomplishing tasks with self-reliance.	Phrase
Sacar album	Release an album ✓	Släppa ett album	Phrase	Voy a sacar un álbum este año.	I am going to release an album this year.	Sacar album can also refer to other contexts like sacar un libro meaning to release a book.	Phrase
Se oye...	He oído música en la calle.	Man hör... ✓	Phrase	Se oye música en la calle.	You can hear music in the street.	Se oye... could be used in expressions to indicate sounds heard from a distance or to imply someone is talking about something.	Phrase
Si igual viniste	If you came anyway ✓	Om du ändå kom	Conjunction/subjunction	Si igual viniste, podrías quedarte un rato.	If you came anyway, you could stay for a while.	Si igual viniste can imply acceptance of a situation despite initial apprehensions.	Conjunction/subjunction
Tal y como	Just as ✓	Precis som	Conjunction/subjunction	Tal y como lo prometí, cumplí con mi palabra.	Just as I promised, I kept my word.	Tal y como is also used to introduce comparisons or illustrate a point.	Conjunction/subjunction
Tantos como ...	Many as ...	Hur många som helst ✓	Phrase	Tantos como quieras, puedes venir a la fiesta.	As many as you want, you can come to the party.	Tantos como ... can be used to express abundance or unlimited quantities in various contexts.	Phrase
Tornar	To return ✓	Att återvända	Verb	Voy a tornar a casa.	I am going to return home.	Tornar can mean to turn or change in different contexts.	Verb
Tras	After ✓	Efter	Preposition	Tras la cena, fuimos a pasear.	After dinner, we went for a walk.	Tras can also mean behind in different contexts.	Preposition
Subyacer	To underlie, be underneath / be hidden ✓	Att underligga	Verb	La historia subyace en la cultura de ese pueblo.	The history underlies the culture of that town.	Subyacer can imply deeper meanings or hidden truths.	Verb
El azar	Fate, chance, luck ✓	Ödet	Noun	El azar a veces decide nuestro destino.	Chance sometimes determines our destiny.	El azar can also refer to randomness or unpredictability in various contexts.	Noun
Será que..?	Will it be?	Skulle .. kunna ..? ✓	Phrase	¿Será que vamos a la playa mañana?	Will it be that we are going to the beach tomorrow?	Será que..? can express doubt or curiosity about a situation or possibility.	Phrase
Me da rabía	It makes me mad ✓	Det gör mig arg	Phrase	Me da rabía cuando no me escuchan.	It makes me mad when they dont listen to me.	Me da rabía can be used to express frustration in various situations beyond just being mad.	Phrase
El chandál	The tracksuit ✓	Joggingdräkten	Noun	El chandál es muy cómodo para hacer ejercicio.	The tracksuit is very comfortable for exercising.	El chandál in some contexts can refer to a casual outfit.	Noun
El rincón	The corner ✓	Hörnet	Noun	El rincón es un lugar tranquilo para leer.	The corner is a quiet place to read.	El rincón can refer to a physical space or metaphorically to a memory or place in ones life.	Noun
Tener cuadritos	To have abs ✓	Att ha magrutor	Phrase	Ella entrena todos los días para tener cuadritos.	She trains every day to have abs.	The phrase Tener cuadritos can also refer to being fit or toned in general.	Phrase
Delgado	Slim ✓	Slank	Adjective	Él es delgado y alto.	He is slim and tall.	Delgado can describe not just body shapes, but also objects, like a delgado libro meaning a slim book.	Adjective
No me peló	"He/she wasn&#x27;t interested in me ✓"	Han/hon var inte intresserad av mig	Phrase	El chico que me gustaba no me peló.	The guy I liked wasnt interested in me.	No me peló can express indifference in other contexts, such as not paying attention.	Phrase
Te apesta la boca	Your mouth stinks ✓	Din mun stinker	Phrase	Te apesta la boca, deberías cepillarte los dientes.	Your mouth stinks, you should brush your teeth.	Te apesta la boca can be used humorously or in a friendly teasing manner.	Phrase
Seguido	Continued/recurring ✓	Fortsatt	Adjective	Voy al gimnasio seguido.	I go to the gym regularly.	Seguido also means after in some contexts, indicating a sequence.	Adjective
La migraña	The migraine ✓	Migrän	Noun	La migraña me causa mucho dolor.	The migraine causes me a lot of pain.	La migraña could potentially refer to a painful headache condition affecting many people.	Noun
Será algo estilo...	Something along the lines... ✓	Det kommer att vara något i stil med...	Phrase	Será algo estilo fiesta en la playa.	It will be something like a beach party.	Será algo estilo... can be used to describe various situations or events, often suggesting a similarity or inspiration from a specific theme.	Phrase
Me pone los cuernos	He/she cheats on me ✓	Han/hon lurar på mig	Phrase	Mi pareja me pone los cuernos	My partner cheats on me	The phrase can also refer to being deceived or betrayed in other contexts.	Phrase
Frenar	To brake/halt (lit. or fig.) ✓	Att bromsa	Verb	Es importante frenar el coche antes de llegar a un semáforo.	It is important to brake the car before reaching a traffic light.	Frenar could also be used figuratively to mean to halt or to slow down in various contexts.	Verb
Adelantar un coche	To overtake a car ✓	Överträffa en bil	Phrase	Es importante saber cuándo es seguro adelantar un coche.	It is important to know when it is safe to overtake a car.	Adelantar un coche can also refer to surpassing someone in a competition or progress.	Phrase
¿Quién en su sano juicio?	Who in their right mind (lit. judgement)? ✓	Vem i sitt rätta sinne?	Phrase	¿Quién en su sano juicio compraría un coche tan caro?	Who in their right mind would buy such an expensive car?	This phrase can express disbelief or criticism of someones decision or action.	Phrase
Comúnmente	Commonly ✓	Vanligt	Adjective	Comúnmente, los estudiantes estudian en la biblioteca.	Commonly, students study in the library.	Comúnmente is also used to describe habits or trends.	Adjective
El tipazo	A &quot;great guy&quot; ✓	En bra kille	Noun	El tipazo siempre ayuda a sus amigos.	The great guy always helps his friends.	El tipazo is also used to refer to someone who is very impressive or stands out positively in a group.	Noun
El vinculo	The link ✓	Länken	Noun	El vínculo entre ellos es fuerte.	The link between them is strong.	El vínculo can be used to refer to connections in relationships or data.	Noun
Voy a ganarte	"I&#x27;m going to beat you (win) ✓"	Jag ska slå dig	Phrase	En la competencia, voy a ganarte y demostraré que soy el mejor.	In the competition, Im going to beat you and Ill prove I am the best.	Voy a ganarte can also be used in a playful context, not just competitive.	Phrase
..Y tal	..and such	..och så ✓	Conjunction/subjunction	Me gusta bailar salsa, hip hop, y tal.	I like to dance salsa, hip hop, and such.	..y tal also implies other similar things or activities in a casual conversation.	Conjunction/subjunction
Encerrar	To enclose, to lock in ✓	Att innesluta	Verb	Voy a encerrar el libro en la caja.	I am going to enclose the book in the box.	Encerrar can also be used metaphorically to mean enclosing thoughts or feelings.	Verb
La orejota	The big ear (derogatory) ✓	Den stora örat	Noun	No puedo dejar de burlarme de tus orejotas.	"I can&#x27;t stop making fun of your hugmungous ears."	The term La orejota can be used informally to describe someone overly attentive or nosy.	Noun
Me lo merezco	I deserve it ✓	Jag förtjänar det	Phrase	Hoy me compré un postre porque me lo merezco.	Today I bought myself a dessert because I deserve it.	Me lo merezco can be used to express self-affirmation or entitlement in various situations.	Phrase
Evitar	To avoid ✓	Att undvika	Verb	Voy a evitar el tráfico.	I am going to avoid the traffic.	Evitar can also be used in contexts like avoiding certain behaviors or situations.	Verb
Viciado	Addicted, stale, flawed ✓	Beroende	Adjective	Él está viciado a los videojuegos.	He is addicted to video games.	Viciado additionally refers to something that is flawed or stale in different contexts.	Adjective
La caña	The cane, beer, small cup ✓	Den cane	Noun	Me gusta tomar la caña al atardecer.	I like to have the cane at sunset.	La caña can refer to a small beer or a cane, showcasing its versatility in Spanish.	Noun
Desgraciado	Disgraceful, unfortunate ✓	Oansvarig	Adjective	El comportamiento de ese jugador fue desgraciado.	The players behavior was disgraceful.	Desgraciado can also refer to a person considered unfortunate or pitiful in a more colloquial sense.	Adjective
Hacer efectivo	To cash in ✓	Att göra verklig	Phrase	Voy a hacer efectivo el cheque mañana.	I am going to cash in the check tomorrow.	Hacer efectivo could mean to realize or to put into effect something, depending on the context.	Phrase
El cochazo	The cool car	Vrålåket ✓	Noun	El cochazo es impresionante.	The cool car is impressive.	El cochazo could also be used to refer to an expensive or luxurious car.	Noun
¡Métele caña!	Go for it! ✓	Gör det	Interjection	¡Métele caña a la fiesta!	Go for it at the party!	¡Métele caña! can also mean to put more effort or enthusiasm into something.	Interjection
El mazo	The deck (cards) ✓	Kortleken	Noun	El mazo está sobre la mesa.	The deck is on the table.	El mazo refers specifically to the set of playing cards.	Noun
La piedra	The stone	Sten ✓	Noun	La piedra es muy dura.	The stone is very hard.	La piedra refers to a specific stone in Spanish.	Noun
La conmoción/El impacto	The shock (feeling) ✓	Chocken	Noun	La conmoción fue profunda después de la noticia.	The shock was profound after the news.	La conmoción is used to describe the emotional impact of an unexpected event.	Noun
Darse cuenta	To realize ✓	Att inse	Phrase	Ella se dio cuenta de su error.	She realized her mistake.	Darse cuenta is used to express the moment of realization or awareness.	Phrase
¡Anda!	Come on! ✓	Kom igen!	Interjection	¡Anda! Vamos a la fiesta.	Come on! Lets go to the party.	Used to express encouragement or motivation.	Interjection
Desmayarse	To faint	Svimma ✓	Verb	Ella se desmayó en la fiesta.	She fainted at the party.	Desmayarse is used to describe the act of losing consciousness temporarily.	Verb
Está por verse (si)	Has decidido qué ciudad visitar? está por verse (si).	Det återstår att se (om) ✓	Phrase	Has decidido qué ciudad visitar? Está por verse (si).	Have you decided what city to visit? It remains to be seen (if).	Está por verse (si) expresses uncertainty about a future situation.	Phrase
Ladrar	Ladrar	Skälla (hund) ✓	Verb	El perro empieza a ladrar por la noche.	The dog starts to bark at night.	Ladrar is commonly used to describe the sound made by dogs.	Verb
La huerta	The vegetable garden	Grönsakslandet ✓	Noun	La huerta es muy hermosa.	The vegetable garden is very beautiful.	La huerta refers specifically to a vegetable garden, commonly used in conversations about gardening or agriculture.	Noun
Manar	Flow, run, stream ✓	Att flöda	Verb	El agua mana por la montaña.	The water flows down the mountain.	Manar is used to describe the movement of liquids.	Verb
El cabello	The hair	Håret ✓	Noun	El cabello es muy importante para la estética.	The hair is very important for aesthetics.	El cabello refers specifically to hair, often emphasizing its appearance or health.	Noun
La espuma	Foam, froth, bubbles, scum ✓	Skummet	Noun	La espuma en la bañera es muy relajante.	The foam in the bathtub is very relaxing.	La espuma refers to the frothy texture created in various contexts, such as bathing or cooking.	Noun
La concha	The shell (turtle/seashell) / the pussy (colloquial) ✓	Snäckan / snippan	Noun	La concha es hermosa.	The shell is beautiful.	La concha can refer to a seashell or is used colloquially for female anatomy.	Noun
Resbalar	Slip, slide / run, trickle (liquid) ✓	Att resbala	Verb	El perro puede resbalar en el hielo.	The dog can slip on the ice.	Used to describe slipping or sliding, often in contexts involving surfaces like ice or water.	Verb
Brotar	Sprout, break out, spring up ✓	Att brotta	Verb	Las plantas comienzan a brotar en primavera.	The plants begin to sprout in spring.	Brotar is commonly used to describe the process of growth or emergence in nature.	Verb
El nido	The nest	(fågel-) boet, nästet ✓	Noun	El nido está en el árbol.	The nest is in the tree.	El nido refers specifically to a birds nest in this context.	Noun
La carroña	The carrion	Kadavret ✓	Noun	La carroña es un signo de la muerte.	The carrion is a sign of death.	La carroña refers to decaying flesh and is often used metaphorically to discuss decay or corruption in broader contexts.	Noun
El cántaro	The jug	Stor vas med vatten (av lera) ✓	Noun	El cántaro está lleno de agua.	The jug is full of water.	El cántaro refers specifically to a clay jug commonly used for holding water.	Noun
El ingenio	The wit	Kvickhet, klipskhet ✓	Noun	El ingenio es una cualidad valiosa en la vida.	The wit is a valuable quality in life.	El ingenio refers to cleverness or quick thinking.	Noun
El vertiente	The slope	En slänt eller sluttning där vatten rinner ✓	Noun	El vertiente se forma cuando la lluvia cae sobre una colina.	The slope is formed when rain falls on a hill.	El vertiente refers to a specific type of slope where water flows, typically influenced by rainfall.	Noun
Lidiar (con)	Deal (with) / fight ✓	Att hantera	Verb	Lidiar con los problemas es difícil.	Dealing with problems is difficult.	Lidiar (con) is often used to express the act of coping or addressing difficulties or challenges.	Verb
Novedoso	Novel, new, original ✓	Nyskapande	Adjective	Esta es una idea novedosa.	This is a novel idea.	Novedoso describes something that is original or innovative.	Adjective
Abrumar	Burden, weigh down, overwhelm ✓	Att överväldiga	Verb	El trabajo puede abrumar a muchas personas.	The work can overwhelm many people.	Abrumar is often used to express feelings of being burdened or weighed down by responsibilities.	Verb
Aportar	Contribute / provide ✓	Att bidra	Verb	Voy a aportar ideas en la reunión.	I am going to contribute ideas in the meeting.	Aportar is commonly used to express the act of giving or contributing something valuable.	Verb
Meramente	Only, merely ✓	Mer endast	Adjective	Es meramente una sugerencia.	It is merely a suggestion.	Meramente is used to emphasize that something is only what is stated, without any additional implications.	Adjective
Ofrecer	To offer ✓	Att erbjuda	Verb	Quiero ofrecerte ayuda.	I want to offer you help.	Ofrecer is used to express the act of making something available to someone.	Verb
El aporte	The contribution ✓	Bidraget	Noun	El aporte es fundamental para el desarrollo del proyecto.	The contribution is essential for the projects development.	El aporte refers to a significant input or support in various contexts.	Noun
Involucrar	To involve ✓	Att involvera	Verb	Es importante involucrar a todos en la decisión.	It is important to involve everyone in the decision.	Involucrar is used to indicate the act of including others in a process or decision.	Verb
Involucrarse (en)	To get involved (with), take part (in) ✓	Att engagera sig (i)	Verb	Me gusta involucrarme en actividades comunitarias.	I like to get involved in community activities.	Involucrarse (en) is used to express participation or engagement in activities or events.	Verb
La lente	The lens	Linsen (optik) ✓	Noun	La lente es transparente.	The lens is transparent.	La lente refers to the optical component used in glasses and cameras.	Noun
Las lentejas	The lentils	Linserna (mat) ✓	Noun	Las lentejas son saludables.	The lentils are healthy.	Las lentejas refers to lentils in Spanish, commonly used in cooking.	Noun
Encarnado 	Embedded ✓	Inkarnerad	Adjective	El mensaje está encarnado en la obra.	The message is embodied in the work.	Encarnado describes something that is represented or manifested in a tangible form.	Adjective
Afinar	Refine, perfect, tune,  ✓	Att raffinera	Verb	Voy a afinar mi guitarra.	I am going to tune my guitar.	Afinar is commonly used when adjusting musical instruments or improving skills.	Verb
El apuro	The rush / predicament, difficult situation ✓	Brådskan	Noun	Estoy en un apuro y necesito ayuda.	I am in a rush and need help.	El apuro refers to a difficult situation or urgent predicament.	Noun
El plazo	The period, time-window / deadline ✓	Tidsperioden	Noun	El plazo para presentar la solicitud es el viernes.	The deadline to submit the application is Friday.	El plazo refers to a specific timeframe or deadline for completing a task.	Noun
Escoger	To pic, choose, select ✓	Att välja	Verb	Debes escoger un libro para leer.	You must choose a book to read.	Escoger is used to indicate the act of making a choice or selection.	Verb
Proveer de	Supply, provide with ✓	Förse med	Verb	El gobierno debe proveer de recursos a los ciudadanos.	The government must provide with resources to the citizens.	Used to indicate supplying or providing someone with something necessary or useful.	Verb
Empedras	To pave ✓	Paviera	Verb	Ellos empedran la calle con piedras.	They pave the street with stones.	Empedras is the second person singular form of the verb empedrar, meaning to cover a surface with stones.	Verb
Empedrado	Paved / overcast, clowdy ✓	Paved	Adjective	El camino está empedrado.	The road is paved.	Empedrado describes a surface that is paved or covered with stones.	Adjective
El empedrado	The paving, stone pavement ✓	Det empedrade	Noun	El empedrado en la plaza es muy bonito.	The paving in the square is very beautiful.	El empedrado refers to a stone pavement, often found in urban settings.	Noun
El ocio	The entertainment, leisure / free time, spare time ✓	Underhållningen	Noun	El ocio es fundamental para el bienestar mental.	Leisure is essential for mental well-being.	El ocio refers to free time activities that enhance quality of life.	Noun
La estafa	The bluff ✓	Bluffen	Noun	La estafa fue un gran problema en la ciudad.	The bluff was a major issue in the city.	La estafa refers to a deception or scam, commonly used in discussions about fraud.	Noun
Vivir algo	Experience something ✓		Phrase	Quiero vivir algo emocionante este fin de semana.	I want to experience something exciting this weekend.	Vivir algo is often used to express the desire to have a meaningful or thrilling experience.	Phrase
Pues ya	Oh well.../so yeah... ✓	Så ja	Interjection	No tengo planes para hoy, pues ya me quedaré en casa.	I have no plans for today, so yeah, Ill stay home.	Pues ya is used to express resignation or acceptance of a situation.	Interjection
No tiene nada que ver con...	It has nothing to do with... ✓	Det har inget att göra med...	Phrase	No tiene nada que ver con el clima.	It has nothing to do with the weather.	This phrase is used to indicate that something is unrelated to another topic.	Phrase
Uno de vez	One at a time ✓	Svenska	Phrase	Voy a hacer los ejercicios uno de vez.	I am going to do the exercises one at a time.	Uno de vez is used to indicate a methodical approach to completing tasks.	Phrase
Aportar cero	Aportar cero	Bidra med noll ✓	Phrase	No quiero aportar cero en este proyecto.	I do not want to contribute zero to this project.	Aportar cero is used to express the idea of not contributing anything.	Phrase
Anoche	Last night ✓	Igår kväll	Adverb	Anoche fui al cine.	Last night I went to the cinema.	Anoche is used to refer to the night before the current day.	Adverb
Deslizar	To slide ✓	Att glida	Verb	El niño quiere deslizarse por el tobogán.	The boy wants to slide down the slide.	Deslizar is commonly used to describe movement along a surface.	Verb
Scrollear/Hacer scroll en	To scroll (colloquial) (2) ✓	Att scrolla (vardagligt)	Phrase	Me gusta scrollear en Instagram.	I like to scroll on Instagram.	It is commonly used in casual conversation.	Phrase
Jugetón	Playful ✓	Lekfull	Adjective	El perro es muy jugetón.	The dog is very playful.	Jugetón describes the playful nature of someone or something.	Adjective
Escocia	Scotland ✓	Skottland	Noun	Escocia es un lugar hermoso.	Scotland is a beautiful place.	Escocia refers to the country known for its stunning landscapes and rich history.	Noun
Imputado	Accused ✓	Åtalad	Adjective	El imputado negó todas las acusaciones.	The accused denied all the charges.	Imputado refers to someone who is accused of a crime.	Adjective
La secundaria	The high school ✓	Gymnasiet	Noun	La secundaria es un lugar donde los estudiantes aprenden.	The high school is a place where students learn.	La secundaria refers specifically to the secondary education level in Spanish-speaking countries.	Noun
A estas alturas	At this point ✓	Vid det här laget	Phrase	A estas alturas, ya deberías haber terminado la tarea.	At this point, you should have finished the homework.	A estas alturas is used to indicate the current status or expectations at a particular time in the past or present.	Phrase
En fin	In the end ✓	Slutligen	Adverb	En fin, decidí quedarme en casa.	In the end, I decided to stay home.	En fin is often used to summarize or conclude a discussion.	Adverb
Hacer falta	To need/to miss ✓	Att behöva	Phrase	Me hace falta un libro.	I need a book.	Hacer falta is used to express a need or absence of something.	Phrase
Hacerse despistado	To play dumb ✓	Att spela dum	Phrase	A veces, la gente se hace despistada para evitar responsabilidades.	Sometimes, people play dumb to avoid responsibilities.	Used to describe pretending not to understand or know something.	Phrase
Ni de broma	No way/absolutely not ✓	Aldrig i livet.	Phrase	No voy a comer esa comida, ni de broma.	Im not going to eat that food, no way.	Ni de broma is used to strongly reject or refuse something.	Phrase
Caer en cuenta	To realize (2) ✓	Falla i förstå	Phrase	Al estudiar la lección, empecé a caer en cuenta de mis errores.	While studying the lesson, I began to realize my mistakes.	Caer en cuenta is commonly used to express the moment someone becomes aware of something.	Phrase
Meterse cuenta	To realize (3) ✓	Inse	Phrase	Me metí cuenta de que olvidé mi libro.	I realized that I forgot my book.	Meterse cuenta is used to express the action of becoming aware of something.	Phrase
Ojalá que te cague un paloma	I hope a pigeon shits on you ✓	Förhoppningsvis skiter en duva på dig	Phrase	Ojalá que te cague un paloma.	I hope a pigeon shits on you.	This phrase is used to express a strong negative sentiment in a humorous or sarcastic way.	Phrase
Maduro	Mature/ripe ✓	Moden	Adjective	La fruta está madura.	The fruit is ripe.	Maduro is used to describe something that is mature or fully developed.	Adjective
Ir por/tomar la salida fácil	To take the easy way out ✓	Att ta den lätta vägen	Phrase	A veces es tentador ir por la salida fácil.	Sometimes its tempting to take the easy way out.	The phrase is used to describe opting for a simpler or less challenging solution.	Phrase
Darse con la realidad	To face reality ✓	Möta verkligheten	Phrase	A veces es difícil darse con la realidad y aceptar lo que sucede.	Sometimes its hard to face reality and accept what happens.	The phrase is used to express the challenge of acknowledging unpleasant truths.	Phrase
El bucle	The loop ✓	Loopen	Noun	El bucle es infinito.	The loop is infinite.	El bucle refers to a repetitive structure often used in programming or discussions about cycles.	Noun
Suficientemente	Enough (adverb) ✓	Tillräckligt	Adverb	Ella estudia suficientemente para pasar el examen.	She studies enough to pass the exam.	Suficientemente is used to indicate an adequate amount or degree.	Adverb
Constantemente	Constantly ✓	Konstant	Adverb	Ella estudia constantemente.	She studies constantly.	Constantemente is used to describe an action that happens without interruption.	Adverb
Dar tumbos	To stumble ✓	Att snubbla	Phrase	Ella da tumbos al caminar.	She stumbles while walking.	Dar tumbos is used to describe someone or something moving unsteadily or clumsily.	Phrase
El atraso	The delay ✓	Förseningen	Noun	El atraso fue causado por problemas técnicos.	The delay was caused by technical issues.	El atraso refers to a setback or delay in progress.	Noun
Ponerle más onda	To make it more cool (latam) ✓	För att göra det mer cool	Phrase	Vamos a ponerle más onda a la fiesta.	We are going to make the party more cool.	Ponerle más onda is often used to suggest making something more fun or lively.	Phrase
Tener onda	Be cool/have coolness (latam) ✓	Coolhet	Phrase	Esa persona tiene onda.	That person is cool.	Tener onda is commonly used in Latin America to describe someone who is stylish or has charisma.	Phrase
La ballesta	The crossbow ✓	Den korsbågen	Noun	La ballesta es una antigua arma de lujo.	The crossbow is an ancient weapon of luxury.	La ballesta refers specifically to a historical weapon known for its accuracy and range.	Noun
Con las llaves puestas	With (leaving) the keys in place ✓	Med nycklarna kvar	Phrase	Salí de casa con las llaves puestas.	I left home with the keys in place.	This phrase suggests leaving keys in a specific location for convenience.	Phrase
De golpe	Suddenly (4) ✓	Plötsligt	Adverb	De golpe, se apagó la luz.	Suddenly, the light went out.	De golpe is used to indicate that something happened unexpectedly.	Adverb
Defender a capa y espada	Defend with tooth and nail ✓	Försvara med näbbar och klor	Phrase	Voy a defender a mi amigo a capa y espada.	I will defend my friend with tooth and nail.	The phrase emphasizes a strong and determined defense.	Phrase
Darse pereza	To be lazy ✓	Att vara lat	Phrase	A veces me da pereza salir a correr.	Sometimes I feel lazy to go running.	Darse pereza is commonly used to express a feeling of laziness or reluctance to do something.	Phrase
Posponer	To postpone ✓	Att skjuta upp	Verb	Debemos posponer la reunión.	We must postpone the meeting.	Posponer is used to indicate delaying an event or task.	Verb
La taza	The cup ✓	Muggen	Noun	La taza es blanca.	The cup is white.	La taza refers specifically to the cup in Spanish, indicating a particular cup rather than cups in general.	Noun
Derramar	To spill/shed ✓	Att spilla	Verb	El agua se derramó en el suelo.	The water spilled on the floor.	Derramar is commonly used to describe the act of liquid spilling out of a container.	Verb
Básicamente	Basically ✓	Alltså	Adverb	Básicamente, lo que quiero decir es que debemos trabajar juntos.	Basically, what I want to say is that we should work together.	Básicamente is used to summarize or simplify a statement.	Adverb
Asimismo	Additionally ✓	Också	Adverb	Hoy estudiaré matemáticas. Asimismo, practicaré español.	Today I will study math. Additionally, I will practice Spanish.	Asimismo is an adverb used to add information, similar to additionally in English.	Adverb
Un par de	A pair of ✓	Ett par	Phrase	Un par de zapatos está en la tienda.	A pair of shoes is in the store.	Un par de is used to indicate a small quantity or a couple of items.	Phrase
El acuario	The aquarium ✓	Akvariet	Noun	El acuario está lleno de peces hermosos.	The aquarium is full of beautiful fish.	El acuario is used to refer to a place where aquatic animals are kept and displayed.	Noun
Tragarse	To swallow ✓	Att svälja	Verb	Me voy a tragarse la comida rápidamente.	I am going to swallow the food quickly.	Tragarse is often used to describe the act of swallowing something, usually food or drink.	Verb
El esturión	The sturgeon	Stören ✓	Noun	El esturión nada en el río.	The sturgeon swims in the river.	El esturión refers to a type of fish known for its caviar.	Noun
Tirar la toalla	Give up	Att kasta in handduken ✓	Phrase	No debes tirar la toalla en momentos difíciles.	You should not give up in difficult times.	Tirar la toalla is used to express the idea of giving up or surrendering in a challenging situation.	Phrase
¡Qué mojón!	"That&#x27;s crap! ✓"	Det är skräp!	Interjection	¡Qué mojón! No quiero salir hoy.	¡Qué mojón! I dont want to go out today.	¡Qué mojón! expresses frustration or disappointment about something deemed unsatisfactory.	Interjection
...En absoluto	...at all ✓	Inte	Adverb	No me gusta el café, en absoluto.	I don’t like coffee, at all.	En absoluto is used to emphasize a negative response or feeling.	Adverb
La pasta dentífrica	The toothpaste ✓	Tandkrämen	Noun	La pasta dentífrica es essential para la higiene bucal.	The toothpaste is essential for oral hygiene.	La pasta dentífrica refers specifically to the product used for cleaning teeth.	Noun
Por si no	(just) in case (negative) ✓	För om det inte	Conjunction/subjunction	Por si no viene, llamaremos a su casa.	Just in case he doesnt come, well call his house.	Por si no is used to express a precaution or alternative action in case something doesnt happen.	Conjunction/subjunction
Por si (acaso)	(just) in case (affirmative) ✓	För säkerhets skull	Phrase	Llévate un paraguas, por si acaso.	Take an umbrella, just in case.	Used to indicate a precaution or preparation for a possible future situation.	Phrase
El guardaespaldas	The bodyguard ✓	Livvakt	Noun	El guardaespaldas protege a la celebridad.	The bodyguard protects the celebrity.	El guardaespaldas is commonly used to refer to a person employed for protection.	Noun
Estar/hacer de guardia/guardaespaldas	To be on guard/bodyguard duty ✓	Att vara på vakt/bodyguard-plikt	Phrase	Hoy voy a estar de guardia para proteger a mi amigo.	Today I am going to be on guard to protect my friend.	This phrase is commonly used to describe the role of a security person.	Phrase
El desastre	The disaster ✓	Katastrofen	Noun	El desastre ocurrió en la ciudad.	The disaster occurred in the city.	El desastre refers to a catastrophic event or situation in Spanish.	Noun
Manejado	Managed ✓	Hanterad	Adjective	La situación fue manejada con cuidado.	The situation was managed with care.	Manejado is used to describe how something is handled or dealt with.	Adjective
Romper el hielo	To break the ice (interaction) ✓	Bryta isen	Phrase	Quiero romper el hielo en la reunión.	I want to break the ice in the meeting.	It is commonly used to refer to initiating conversation or interaction in a social setting.	Phrase
Así como	As well as/just as (2) ✓	Såväl som	Conjunction/subjunction	El perro, así como el gato, son mascotas.	The dog, as well as the cat, are pets.	Así como is used to indicate a similarity or addition, connecting two elements.	Conjunction/subjunction
¡Cómo no!	Of course/why not! ✓	Självklart!	Interjection	¡Cómo no! me gustaría ir al cine.	Of course I would like to go to the cinema.	¡Cómo no! is used to express agreement or willingness.	Interjection
Transmitir	To convey ✓	Att överföra	Verb	Es importante transmitir tus ideas claramente.	It is important to transmit your ideas clearly.	Transmitir is used to express the act of conveying information or feelings.	Verb
Escéptico	Sceptical ✓	Skeptisk	Adjective	Soy escéptico sobre las noticias.	I am sceptical about the news.	Escéptico is used to express doubt or disbelief regarding something.	Adjective
Ajá	Aha ✓	Aha	Interjection	Ajá, ahora entiendo.	Aha, now I understand.	Ajá is used to express realization or understanding.	Interjection
Digno	Worthy/dignified ✓	Värdig	Adjective	Él es un hombre digno.	He is a worthy man.	Digno describes someone who deserves respect or admiration.	Adjective
Cometer delitos	Commit crimes ✓	Begå brott	Phrase	No se debe cometer delitos.	One should not commit crimes.	Cometer delitos refers to the act of engaging in illegal activities.	Phrase
Por correo	By mail ✓	Med posten	Preposition	Te enviaré la carta por correo.	I will send you the letter by mail.	Por correo is commonly used to denote sending something through the postal service.	Preposition
Pelarse	To peel off	Att gitta ✓	Verb	Me voy a pelar en la playa.	Im going to peel off at the beach.	Pelarse is often used in the context of getting a sunburn or losing skin.	Verb
Pelear	To get into a fight ✓	Att slåss	Verb	Los niños no deben pelear en la escuela.	The children should not fight at school.	Pelear is commonly used to refer to engaging in a physical confrontation or argument.	Verb
Pelearse	To fight ✓	Att slåss	Verb	Los niños a veces se pelean en el parque.	The children sometimes fight in the park.	Pelearse is commonly used to describe physical or verbal fighting.	Verb
Hoy por tí, mañana por mí!	I help you, and you help me ✓	Idag för dig, imorgon för mig!	Phrase	Hoy por tí, mañana por mí! Es un dicho que refleja la reciprocidad.	Today for you, tomorrow for me! This phrase is often used to express mutual help and support among friends.		Phrase
El anacardo	The cashew ✓	Cashew	Noun	El anacardo es un fruto delicioso.	The cashew is a delicious fruit.	El anacardo refers to the cashew in Spanish, emphasizing its nature as a fruit.	Noun
El bofetón	The slap ✓	Släppen	Noun	El bofetón fue inesperado.	The slap was unexpected.	El bofetón refers to a sudden and often surprising act of hitting someone across the face.	Noun
Desmentir	To deny ✓	Att förneka	Verb	Él desmintió los rumores.	He denied the rumors.	Desmentir is commonly used to refer to the act of stating that something is not true.	Verb
Saber algo de...	Saber algo de...	Att ha kunna/veta/ha koll på... ✓	Phrase	Sabes algo de matemáticas?	Do you know something about math?	Saber algo de... is used to inquire about someones knowledge of a subject.	Phrase
La jornada	The shift/period (e.g work) ✓	Skiftet	Noun	La jornada comenzó a las ocho de la mañana.	The shift started at eight in the morning.	La jornada is commonly used to refer to a work shift or a specific period of time.	Noun
El doblaje	The dubbing	Dubbningen ✓	Noun	El doblaje es una parte esencial del cine.	The dubbing is an essential part of cinema.	El doblaje refers to the process of replacing the original voice in films with another language, making it more accessible to non-native speakers.	Noun
Teletransportarse	To teleport oneself ✓	Att teleportera sig	Verb	Puedo teletransportarme a cualquier lugar.	I can teleport myself anywhere.	Teletransportarse is used to express the action of moving from one place to another instantly.	Verb
Siempre y cuando	As long as / provided that (4) ✓	Så länge	Conjunction/subjunction	Puedo ir a la fiesta siempre y cuando termine mi tarea.	I can go to the party as long as I finish my homework.	Siempre y cuando introduces a condition that must be met for the main clause to be true.	Conjunction/subjunction
Bendecir	To bless	Att välsigna ✓	Verb	Yo quiero bendecir a mi familia.	I want to bless my family.	Bendecir is commonly used to express the act of giving blessings or positive wishes to someone.	Verb
Maldecir	To maldecir	Att förbanna ✓	Verb	No debes maldecir en público.	You should not curse in public.	Maldecir is used to express a strong negative sentiment or to wish harm upon someone.	Verb
Bendito	Blessed	Välsignad  ✓	Adjective	Eres un bendito amigo	You are a blessed friend	Used to describe someone who is fortunate or cherished.	Adjective
Maldito	Cursed	Förbannad, helvetes ✓	Adjective	Ese maldito viento no me deja dormir.	That cursed wind wont let me sleep.	Maldito expresses annoyance or frustration with something.	Adjective
Marchitar	To wither	Att vissna ✓	Verb	Las flores van a marchitar si no las riegas.	The flowers will wither if you dont water them.	Marchitar is used to describe the process of a plant losing vitality or freshness.	Verb
Marchito	Withered	Vissen ✓	Adjective	La planta está marchita.	The plant is withered.	Marchito describes something that is dry or withered, often used for plants.	Adjective
Extender	Extend	Att sträcka ut ✓	Verb	Voy a extender mi mano.	I am going to extend my hand.	Extender means to stretch out or reach out.	Verb
Extenso	Extensive	Utsträckt, omfattande ✓	Adjective	El informe es extenso.	The report is extensive.	The adjective extenso is used to describe something that is large in scope or range.	Adjective
Extinguir	To extinguish	Att släcka ✓	Verb	Voy a extinguir el fuego.	I am going to extinguish the fire.	Extinguir is used to describe the action of putting out a fire or extinguishing something.	Verb
Extinto	Extinguished	Utdöd ✓	Adjective	El mamífero dodo está extinto.	The dodo bird is extinct.	Extinto refers to something that no longer exists.	Adjective
La beca	The scholarship	Stipendiet ✓	Noun	La beca es importante para los estudiantes.	The scholarship is important for students.	La beca refers to a financial aid program for students.	Noun
Llevar puesto	Wear	Att ha på /sig/ ✓	Phrase	Yo llevo puesto un abrigo.	I am wearing a coat.	Llevar puesto is commonly used to express what someone is currently wearing.	Phrase
La escoba, El cepillo	The broom, the brush	Borsten, kvasten ✓	Noun	La escoba y el cepillo están en la cocina.	The broom and the brush are in the kitchen.	La escoba refers to the broom and El cepillo refers to the brush, both common household items in Spanish.	Noun
Implicar	To implicate	Antyda / inkludera ✓	Verb	La decisión implica un cambio de horario.	The decision implicates a change in schedule.	Implicar is used to indicate that something involves or necessitates something else.	Verb
